Clive Hammond
2020-01-23
general
Chinese New Year 2020: Marks & Spencer in horror gaffe by offering wrong food deal
 The firm were branded “culturally blind” as it offered customers the chances to enjoy a chicken tikka masala to toast the traditional new year of China. According to The Sun, a host of Indian ready meals were being offered to shoppers ahead of Saturday’s New Year celebration. But baffled shoppers were outraged when they saw the food under a sign that read “Happy Chinese New Year - Share the Joy”. It was seen by a shopper at the Marks & Spencer branch in Woking, Surrey. One shopper said “It’s as if they need a lesson in culture and traditions. “Surely everyone knows chicken tikka is not from China? “It’s almost like they’re using Chinese New Year as an excuse to flog their Indian ready meals and naan breads.   “It’s culturally blind and totally insensitive.” The business claimed it’s food offers on Indian food also applied to its Chinese ranges. Customers are able to purchase two main dishes, alongside two sides for a price of £10. The mains include chicken Madras and king prawn bhuna. JUST IN: Pound to euro: Sterling sees modest boost  The sides range from Bombay aloo to onion bhajis. A spokesperson for the firm said: “This Chinese New Year we have a fantastic offer across our Chinese range: pick up two mains and two sides for just £10. “There are 25 products to choose from including favourites such as Crispy Chilli Beef and Hoisin Duck Noodles. “Running concurrently is the same offer on Indian meals. Customers can mix-and-match if they wish or have a wholly Chinese menu and really get involved with the celebrations.” DON'T MISS:St Pancras enjoys sweet smell of success with Lancôme (LATEST)Aldi ‘humiliated’ couple from Rhyl after questions their purchases (ANALYSIS)Boris to save high streets with rates cut after hearing Brexit voices (UPDATE)  This year marks the year of the rat in China. The celebrations will begin on January 25, which begins the New Year cycle. The holiday is a major celebration in China and Taiwan, but it threatens to be overshadowed by the growing concerns surrounding the coronavirus which was first found in Asia. So far 17 people have died from the virus. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
