Hayley Anderson
2020-01-23
general
NCIS season 17: What did actress find challenging about playing Director Jenny Shepard?
 For three seasons, actress Lauren Holly was better known as Director Jenny Shepard as she portrayed NCIS boss. After her departure from the CBS show, Leon Vance (played by Rocky Carroll) took over the job. So what did Holly think was one of the most challenging aspects of being on NCIS? NCIS fans will remember Director Shepard as a tough woman who led her team with an iron fist. She was introduced to the show as the director but she also had a previous romantic relationship with Agent Gibbs (Mark Harmon), so the pair were very flirtatious throughout her time on NCIS. This continuously made fans question whether or not the pair would eventually get together. READ MORE: NCIS season 17, episode 13 promo: What is going to happen next?   In an interview with CBS, Harmon said it is harder than it looks to develop the perfect amount of onscreen chemistry, especially when there have been many characters who have come and gone over the years. He said: “Once you establish chemistry, you’re competitive about it, because it doesn’t happen very often. “And when that chemistry is altered, none of us here knew what to expect. “You hope that you better it. There are no guarantees.” But Holly’s onscreen romance with Harmon was not what made her role difficult.   Prior to joining the cast of NCIS, Holly had been in a number of comedies including Dumb and Dumber, Picket Fences, My Two Dads and Becker. So when Holly was given the serious role of Director Shephard, it took some getting used to. She said: “You can’t just play the hard ass because you can’t be completely unlikeable. “However, it’s OK if I’m the character that people don’t feel like hugging all the time.” DON'T MISS... Verhofstadt urges EU to support Boris' deal to avoid shock no deal [VIDEO] White House Farm: Huge ‘inaccuracy’ in devastating ITV drama revealed [INACCURACY] Coronavirus poll: Are you worried about the coronavirus outbreak? [POLL] She continued: “When you work with people like Michael Weatherly, and he’s so talented and so funny, if I have scenes with Michael, I so want to go toe-to-toe with him and do that. “And it’s so hard for me, especially with my background being in comedy, not to do that. But it’s rewarding that I don’t.” But her part became even more serious as she made her exit from the series. Shepard was terminally ill with a brain tumour but decided not to tell anyone. However, she did not die from the tumour but was killed in a shootout at a diner when an arms dealer seemed his revenge against herself and Gibbs who shot one of their men years before the series even began. Gibbs finds out she killed many of the attackers singlehandedly and says she “put up one Hell of a fight”. NCIS continues every Tuesday at 9pm on CBS. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
