Svar Nanan-Sen
2020-01-23
general
Nigel Farage ‘astonished’ at UK government’s response to coronavirus
 The Brexit Party leader told LBC he was "astonished" that people were only given a leaflet outlining the symptoms of the coronavirus after arriving in the UK from China. Mr Farage said the UK should have been testing the temperatures of passengers once they had arrived in the country. Mr Farage said: "We are told that this is a particularly dangerous virus. "That it is pretty much untreatable medically. "I have to say doesn’t it seem incredibly lax of us to allow planes to come in from China and just give people a leaflet. "I am just astonished that all people got yesterday was a leaflet when you see in other parts of the world they were actually having their temperatures tested and all the rest of it." READ MORE: Coronavirus outbreak: Has coronavirus hit UK? Is your area affected?   Earlier today the World Health Organisation have stated that the coronavirus outbreak "may yet become" a global health emergency. A WHO spokesman said: "We are not declaring a public emergency of international concern today. "As it was yesterday the emergency committee was divided over whether the outbreak of novel coronavirus represents this or not. "Make no mistake this is an emergency in China. "It has not yet become a global health emergency. It may yet become one. "The WHO risk assessment is that an outbreak is very high risk in China and a high risk regionally and globally. "584 cases have no been reported to WHO, including 17 deaths. "575 of those cases and all of the deaths have been reported in China." DON'T MISSCoronavirus panic: Chinese TV presenters wear masks during broadcast [VIDEO]Coronavirus panic: Mystery illness fits profile of deadly Disease X [INSIGHT]Beijing forced to cancel Chinese New Year celebrations [INSIGHT]  This week, Chinese health officials confirmed the virus is transmittable between humans. Five people in Scotland and Northern Ireland are being tested for suspected coronavirus after travelling to the UK from the central Chinese city of Wuhan. All the patients had respiratory symptoms and had been in Wuhan in the last 14 days. The virus has has already spread to the US, Singapore, Japan, South Korea and Thailand. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
