Hayley Anderson
2020-01-23
general
Death in Paradise season 9, episode 4 promo: What will happen in next week’s episode?
 DI Jack Mooney (played by Ardal O’Hanlon) and the rest of the Honoré Police force, cracked the case of the mysterious murder of professional cyclist Xavier Prince (Ashley Byam). But what’s next for the team in the BBC One drama? Here’s everything we know so far about the upcoming episode from the promo. The first thing fans see in the promo is a bird’s eye view of a man in a boat at nighttime. A voiceover then says: “My son was happy, he loved his life.” Following this, a clip of a young man kissing a woman is shown which we assume to be the next victim. In this episode, it looks like DI Mooney will also be opening up about his feelings of leaving the island. READ MORE: Death in Paradise: What happened to Dwayne Myers? Will he return?   Talking to Commissioner Selwyn Patterson (Don Warrington), Jack said: “The thing that left me, the thing when Cathy passed away, that sense of knowing where you want to be.” Fans see him at the top of a lighthouse, looking uneasy and scared of standing up straight. A man leading a church sermon tells his followers: “You need to listen to your heart”, which they all agree to. Anna (Nina Wadia) is then shown kissing Jack which takes him by surprise.   Next, we see the return of a familiar face who lived on the island temporarily. Jack’s daughter Siobhan Mooney (Grace Stone) is visiting her father in Saint Marie where she gets to meet his new love interest Anna for the first time. She tells her dad: “Anna told me you might join her on her trip.” The pair seem to be joined by Anna who is not shown in the promo but making a joke at her father’s expense, she tells someone: “You won’t enjoy it as much if he doesn’t worry about it first.” DON'T MISS... Verhofstadt urges EU to support Boris' deal to avoid shock no deal [VIDEO] Coronavirus poll: Are you worried about the coronavirus outbreak? [POLL] White House Farm: Huge ‘inaccuracy’ in devastating ITV drama revealed [INACCURACY] The promo ends with another clip from DI Mooney and Commissioner Patterson’s one-on-one chat. Clearly thinking whether he should leave the island or not, the detective inspector is seeking guidance from his boss. The commission tells him: “True happiness has very little to do with geography. “I’d regret missing even a day of the life I’ve had.” This week, Jack spent episode three trying to convince new girlfriend Anna not to leave Saint Marie and instead extend her trip for longer. However, by the end of the episode, she tells him she wasn’t going to change her mind about her future travel plans. But at the last minute, she invites Jack to accompany her, telling him to think about leaving the island. So is this how DI Mooney will make his exit from Death in Paradise? Death in Paradise season 9 continues every Thursday at 9pm on BBC One. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
