Samantha Schwartz
2020-01-14
tech
Security is key for retailers. But it can't stand in the way of efficiency, CIO says
Across industries, security is often seen as a barrier for innovation, and Santimaw, who previously served as the retailer's VP of information security, ran into similar issues. Rent-A-Center "was running with a security mindset, and while that's important, it stopped the business from being effective," said Santimaw. It interfered with him trying to build more computer vision and data-intensive initiatives at Rent-A-Center locations. "The business model has to go where the customers are. Security cannot stand in the way of moving forward," he said. Overcoming the existing model was a "horrific tollgate to get through" and now it's a conversation about innovation. While the main business model is not entirely security-centric anymore, there's an "open area" in the headquarters for the security organization to collaborate across IT teams. It's not a "basement;" non-security employees are welcome. Rent-A-Center's open concept for security collaboration went hand-in-hand with overhauling its connectivity solution to the cloud-based option. Retailers treat their cybersecurity organizations as the default internet of things security team, said Robert Eastman, research manager at IDC Retail Insights, speaking on the panel. Instead, retailers must rethink what the smart store concept means for customers and associates. Operational and information technology converge with cybersecurity, meeting them in the middle. In retail, networks and infrastructure are a "black box," said Eastman. Senior management and C-suite officials wouldn't really think about it. Clarification: This article and headline have been updated to add context to comments made by Mike Santimaw​. The COVID-19 pandemic, and ensuing recession, turned security strategies upside down. Tech leaders must invoke their "inner Steve Jobs" to attract AI talent, said Gartner's Arun Chandrasekaran. Subscribe to CIO Dive to get the must-read news & insights in your inbox. Discover announcements from companies in your industry. The COVID-19 pandemic, and ensuing recession, turned security strategies upside down. Tech leaders must invoke their "inner Steve Jobs" to attract AI talent, said Gartner's Arun Chandrasekaran.
