Holly Fleet
2020-01-24
general
'Thai Ted Bundy' arrested after HORROR discovery of human remains
 Mr Onkvisit has been labelled the Thai Ted Bundy after a second metal casket containing the bones of Warinthorn Chaiyachet was pulled from the pond that contains carnivorous fish near his Bang Khae residence. It is the same water where almost 300 bone fragments were found earlier in the month, but forensic results have not yet been delivered to identify the victims. The comparisons between Mr Onkvisit and Ted Bundy have arisen from the way they both may have kept monuments of their murders. The Vancouver Sun even alleged that Mr Onkvisit: “made his 22-year-old girlfriend, Warinthorn Chaiyachet, sleep in a metal casket to stop her from leaving.” He is also accused of predominately targeting “young women” whom he allegedly “murdered in a macabre manner before disposing of their bodies in his pond.” They also described the sickening way he may have killed Ms Chaiyachet: “His girlfriend was suffocated last July then thrown in the pond full of alligators.”   In a twist of events, it has also been revealed that Mr Onkvisit is the son of real estate mogul Chalermchai Onkvisit, who was convicted of butchering a 15-year-old girl in 1983. Chalermchai, who owned what was then Bang Khae’s profitable Onkvisit Market, reportedly attacked the girl and dragged her away to kill after he saw her knocking on the glass of a fish tank at his market. Onkvisit's mother was accused of masterminding the crime but subsequently fled abroad with his younger sister. After the young girl was killed, her body was cut into pieces and put in a box. READ MORE: Police hunt Thailand’s Jack the Ripper who may have killed sixth woman  Chalermchai was convicted and later gunned down in what was believed to be a hit upon his release from prison. Since the disturbing findings, the relatives of a 12-year old missing girl who lived near Apichai Onkvisit have come forward to say that they now fear she could have been one of his victims. Police Colonel Jirakrit Jarunpat, commander of the Women's and Children's Welfare Division, said the investigation implies that there are many more victims who were killed by Apichai. DONT MISS: Coronavirus spread ‘could have been prevented’ if official response [ANALYSIS]Coronavirus vs Spanish flu: How deadly is China outbreak? [OPINION]Coronavirus: Major travel warning issued across Asia as 17 killed [INSIGHT] "The investigation has found several women who were involved with the culprit have disappeared. They include his friends, girlfriends and prostitutes," the police chief said "We have found 298 bone pieces in the pond so far but could not clarify how many humans those bones were from. "We are also seeking his ex-girlfriend who we believe might have witnessed or have information about him killing the missing women."  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
