Luke Hawker 
2020-01-24
general
Coronavirus outbreak: Disneyland closed as crisis escalates - 1,000 suspected cases
 The theme park in Shanghai will be closed to prevent further outbreak of the coronavirus, which has already claimed the lives of 25 people. There are also more than 1,000 other suspected cases. The resort is located in the district of Shanghai and will be shut from Saturday onwards. The park said the urgent action was required to “ensure the health and safety of our guests and cast”. Shanghai Disneyland, Disneytown, Walt Disney Grand Theatre and Wishing Star Park will all be closed, a re-opening date is yet to be set. China is currently beginning a seven-day holiday to celebrate the Lunar New Year and Disneyland has been a hotspot for tourists during this time of year. Last year the theme park had to stop selling tickets to visitors as it was full to capacity.   In a statement Shanghai Disney Resort said: “In response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak and in order to ensure the health and safety of our guests and cast. "Shanghai Disney Resort is temporarily closing Shanghai Disneyland, Disneytown including Walt Disney Grand Theatre and Wishing Star Park, starting January 25, 2020. “We will continue to carefully monitor the situation and be in close contact with the local government, and we will announce the reopening date upon confirmation. “Shanghai Disney Resort will assist in the refund for guests who have purchased tickets for admission to Shanghai Disneyland, have booked a resort hotel, or have booked tickets for ‘Beauty and the Beast Mandarin Production’ through the original ticket purchase channel, and we will introduce the detailed procedure and guidelines via the resort’s official platforms as soon as possible.”  On Thursday the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the new coronavirus an emergency for China. Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of the WHO, said it may not be long until a global health emergency is declared. Dr Tedros said:"Make no mistake, this is though an emergency in China. "But it has not yet become a global health emergency.  "It may yet become one." Chinese authorities has also expanded lockdowns to at least 10 cities putting 33 million people on high alert. Train stations, the airport and subways are closed across Wuhan, where the illness has been concentrated, and nine of its neighbours in central China's Hubei province. Masks have been made mandatory in public in Wuhan, and images from the city showed empty shelves in shops as people stock up for what could be an extended isolation. READ MORE: Coronavirus: Shadowy lab for world’s deadliest diseases in Wuhan  Cases of the virus has been detected across Asia including in South Korea, Japan and Singapore. Initial symptoms of the virus can mirror those of the cold and flu, including cough, fever, chest tightening and shortness of breath, but can worsen to pneumonia. The disease has also been confirmed in Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam and the US. DON'T MISS Coronavirus outbreak: Has coronavirus hit UK? Is your area affected? [EXPLAINER]Beijing forced to cancel Chinese New Year celebrations [INSIGHT]CORONAVIRUS LIVE: Britain on alert as 'highly likely' disease in UK [LIVE]  In the UK Public Health England (PHE) has confirmed 14 people have been tested for the virus. PHE said five patients have been confirmed negative and nine are still awaiting results. Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the NHS is "ready to respond appropriately" to any cases that emerge in the UK. In a statement to the Commons , Mr Hancock said while "there is an increased likelihood that cases may arise in this country, we are well prepared and well equipped to deal with them". See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
