Hayley Anderson
2020-01-24
general
Riverdale season 4: Who is Miss Appleyard? Who is actress Emily Tennant?
 Riverdale fans have been waiting for The CW’s show imminent return since mid-December and thankfully the series has returned this week. In the latest episode, new teacher Miss Appleyard (played by Emily Tennant) joined the cast of the teen drama. But who is she and will she cause trouble for the students of Riverdale? As the students have gone back to school, they have also resumed their usual activities which are not often seen on the show. Archie Andrews (KJ Apa) played football, Betty Cooper (Lili Reinhart) went back to working on the school’s newspaper and Veronica Lodge (Camila Mendes) and Cheryl Blossom (Madelaine Petsch) were back cheering on the Bulldogs. But the Vixens weren’t cheery for too long as someone new came into the mix. READ MORE: Riverdale season 4 Netflix release time: What time is Riverdale out?   Miss Appleyard is the school’s new cheerleading coach and from the outset, she was determined to get the Vixens, and especially Cheryl, in line. She no longer wanted to see saucy dance routines on the football pitch and get the redhead under control. The Vixens agreed to go with her Miss Appleyard’s plan despite a few moans here and there. But, as always, Cheryl was going to fight back against the coach.   On the day of the big game, Cheryl ended up locking Miss Appleyard in a cupboard so she would miss the entire event. This meant the Vixens were free to do what they wanted and performed another head-turning routine, wowing their audience. The season has only just begun and already Cheryl has made herself a new enemy out of another teacher. In the first half of season four, we saw her ongoing power struggle with Principal Honey (Kerr Smith). DON'T MISS... White House Farm: Huge ‘inaccuracy’ in devastating ITV drama revealed [INACCURACY] Coronavirus poll: Are you worried about the coronavirus outbreak? [POLL] Verhofstadt urges EU to support Boris' deal to avoid shock no deal [VIDEO] Tennant is a Canadian actress who is probably best known for playing Ivy Young in the Canadian comedy series Mr Young. She has also featured in Stephen King’s Kingdom Hospital, Supernatural, Cedar Cove, Charmed and was a voiceover in the Polly Pocket TV series. Besides Riverdale, her most recent work has been in History’s sci-fi series Project Blue Book where she plays Judy Newbold. However, it doesn’t sound likely Miss Appleyard will be a reoccurring character on the show. In a tweet announcing the news, Tennant said: “Hey folks! Joining the cast of #RIVERDALE for a fun episode 01.22.2020 “Varsity Blues”. Going by the tweet, fans won’t be seeing Miss Appleyard again any time soon, meaning Cheryl did a good job in scaring her off after all. Riverdale season 4 continues every Thursday on Netflix. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
