Hayley Anderson
2020-01-24
general
NCIS season 17: What happened to Agent Ellie Bishop’s husband on NCIS?
 Agent Ellie Bishop (played by Emily Wickersham) was first introduced to NCIS back in 2013 and has been involved in some of the biggest storylines to date. Her underlying feelings for Agent Nick Torres (Wilmer Valderrama) also remain under CBS audiences’ watchful eyes. But what happened to her husband Jake (Jamie Bamber)? Before she joined NCIS, Bishop was an analyst at the NSA. She worked there for six years and during this time, she met Jake Malloy, whom she went on to marry before she was on the CBS series. Bishop was originally a liaison officer to NCIS via NSA but was soon promoted to NCIS Probationary Agent and later a field agent. The less she had to do with NSA eventually led to the downfall of her marriage in Malloy’s eyes. READ MORE: NCIS season 17: What happened to Agent Paula Cassidy?   In season 13, episode 10 Blood Brothers, Jake confesses to Ellie he had been cheating on her with an NSA internal affairs officer, claiming they had grown distant since she left her job. Unable to cope with her marital problems and work, she asks Agent Gibbs (Mark Harmon) if she could go back home to Oklahoma for a break which he agrees to. Bishop doesn’t tell Jake face to face where she is going but instead leaves him a note in their living room.   The note reads: “Jake, I’m in a bad place. I hurt a lot. “I’m going home to Oklahoma. Don’t contact me. I’m not sure when I’ll be back.” Despite her message, he continues to call her while she is at home with her family and so decides to destroy her phone with an axe. But he then rings the house phone asking Ellie what he should do for Thanksgiving and she responds saying: “It’s not my concern Jake, spend it wherever and whomever you want”, before slamming the phone down. DON'T MISS... Verhofstadt urges EU to support Boris' deal to avoid shock no deal [VIDEO] Coronavirus poll: Are you worried about the coronavirus outbreak? [POLL] White House Farm: Huge ‘inaccuracy’ in devastating ITV drama revealed [INACCURACY] However, their relationship wasn’t finally over until she returned home and told him: “We weren’t working. “I would never have found out, I think you wanted me to know. “It’s over Jake, it’s been over for a long time, we’re just saying it out loud now.” So why did the creators of NCIS decide to end their marriage? Speaking to CBS, NCIS executive producer Gary Glassberg said: “In the real world of federal agents, divorce happens all the time. It’s a very stressful situation, careers go in different directions. “We were intrigued by the idea when we originally introduced her that when you’re with an agency like the NSA, unless you’re married to another NSA agent, you can’t talk about what you did at work. “If you put her as an NCIS agent and he remains at the NSA, if their careers are all they have in common, then it’s going to start to deteriorate.” NCIS season 17 continues every Tuesday at 9pm on CBS. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
