Randall W. Forsyth
2020-01-24
business
Stocks Catch a Cold After Fed Stops Expanding Its Balance Sheet
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. Getty Images When America sneezed, the world used to catch a cold. Now the spread of coronavirus in China and abroad has cast a chill on global financial markets. This new bug raised the specter of the SARS epidemic of 2003, but the World Health Organization says it’s too early to declare a global health emergency . In China, with over 1,000 confirmed cases and 41 deaths, cities with a combined population over 36 million are in lockdown over the key Lunar New Year’s holiday. In the U.S., the coronavirus threat seems to more closely resemble what we see in the typical flu season, but on a much smaller scale, observes Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics. There have been 120,000 hospitalizations and 6,600 deaths from the flu, versus two confirmed cases of coronavirus. The prospect of a disruption in global economies weighed on equities and speculative-grade bonds, along with oil and other commodities. For the week, the Dow industrials and the S&P 500 index fell by more than 1%, their worst declines since August, while the Nasdaq dipped by 0.8%, its worst showing since late September. Read More Up and Down Wall Street Why You Shoudn’t Count on an Economic Boom This Election Year Risk markets were already exhibiting signs of being ready to take a breather from their steady advance to record prices and skimpy yield premiums. “All metrics showed the market being overbought in terms of sentiment,” commented Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist at Prudential Financial. That included active call-option buying, representing bets on higher prices. All of which helped set the stage for a pullback, with coronavirus providing the catalyst . Hitting this speed bump, the stock market’s strong groups didn’t live up to the popular perception that only the big tech names have powered the averages to records. But bond surrogates represented by exchange-traded funds, such as Utilities Select Sector SPDR (ticker: XLU) and iShares U.S. Real Estate (IYR), hit records, as the 10-year Treasury yield slipped under 1.70%, from 1.92% at the turn of the year. Interest rates remain the primary underpinning for stocks, as equity valuations look stretched, except when compared with the paltry returns offered by the debt market. Much of the credit for that is owed to the world’s central banks, notably the Federal Reserve. In addition to last year’s three one-quarter percentage-point short-term rate cuts, the central bank has expanded its balance sheet by over $300 billion since September, when ructions in the repurchase-agreement market led it to inject liquidity. Since then, U.S. stocks’ value has jumped by more than $3 trillion. The Fed insists that its operations don’t constitute quantitative easing, as it calls its purchases of long-term securities intended to boost stock and bond prices. Its recent operations consist of adding liquidity to the money markets through repurchase agreements and by buying short-term bills. Others call this a distinction without difference, given the impact on stock and bond prices. What’s intriguing is that the Fed’s balance sheet has stopped expanding since the beginning of the year and actually contracted by some $25 billion in the week ended on Wednesday. While the central bank has said it would continue to purchase $60 billion of Treasury bills a month, it’s winding down its repo operations and letting its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities mature without being replaced. It’s probably coincidental that the stock market has stumbled, but it bears watching. All of which could provide interesting fodder for Fed Chair Jerome Powell’s press conference this Wednesday afternoon, following the two-day policy meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. That the central bank won’t change its federal-funds target range of 1.50% to 1.75% is about as sure a wager as there is in this life (although J.P. Morgan economists predict a slight technical upward adjustment in the interest rate on excess reserves, to 1.60% from 1.55%). What the Powell Fed won’t do is threaten the economy or bull market by letting the yield curve invert, with the 10-year note yield trading below the two-year note, writes Strategas Research Partners strategist Thomas Tzitzouris. “Powell’s pivot” last year—from planning multiple rate hikes to holding steady and ultimately cutting rates—contrasted with the actions of his predecessors, who were slow to reverse course when the yield curve inverted. Still to be seen: how the Fed manages its balance sheet if risk markets turn rocky. Write to Randall W. Forsyth at randall.forsyth@barrons.com
