Al Root
2020-01-24
business
If You Missed Out on Tesla Stock, Consider This Chinese Car Maker
Shares in electric-vehicle pioneer Tesla have been on a tear , gaining some 125% over the past three months, crushing the gains of the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average . While better-than-expected third-quarter earnings were a major catalyst, growing optimism about the Chinese EV market also helped. Tesla (ticker: TSLA) just started delivering Model 3 vehicles built in a new Shanghai facility to customers in China. China is the world’s biggest market for electric cars, and growth is expected to continue. But there are more ways than just Tesla to play it. Investors frustrated about missing out on Telsa’s epic run may want to consider looking at Chinese EV maker BYD (1211.Hong Kong). “We believe China EV [penetration] goes from 5% today to 10% in the next two years,” Wedbush analyst Dan Ives told Barron’s . “Global EV [penetration] will be 7% by 2024.” Ives is talking about the percentage of new-car sales that will be electric. U.S. EV penetration is about 2%, less than half Chinese levels. “China is the fuel for Tesla on EV demand,” Ives said. Ives doesn’t cover BYD, but does cover Tesla and rates its shares the equivalent of Hold, with a $550 price target . He is optimistic about China and EV demand overall, but Tesla’s high valuation keeps him from recommending the stock. Tesla, after all, is now a member of the $100 billion market-capitalization club. There are only about 50 companies in the U.S. with market values that high. Tesla is now the second-largest car company in the world, trailing only
        Toyota Motor (TM). BYD’s market cap, conversely, is about $25 billion. BYD makes more cars than Tesla does and sold about 460,000 vehicles in 2019, compared with 367,500 Tesla sold globally. Tesla, however, sells higher-end cars. It generated about $24 billion in 2019 sales, while BYD will take in closer to $18 billion. Unlike Tesla, the Chinese auto maker sells both battery-powered and internal-combustion vehicles, and about half of BYD sales are EVs. While Tesla sells more electric cars overall, BYD’s EV sales outpace Tesla’s in China. Both companies are profitable. Tesla has made money for two straight quarters and generated positive free cash flow as well. BYD has been profitable for years. Neither stock, though, is cheap. Tesla trades for more than 80 times estimated 2020 earnings of $6.78 a share. BYD trades for 50 times earnings of about 92 Hong Kong cents a share, or about 12 U.S. cents. BYD trades in Hong Kong and reports in Hong Kong dollars. The market values and sales comparisons are in U.S. dollars. BYD also trades in the U.S. as an American depositary receipt (BYDDF). The ADRs closed Thursday at $5.98, down 1.3%, as the entire Chinese market sold off on coronavirus fears. Read More Trader The Stock Market Finally Finds a Reason to Fall. What Comes Next? Oil Tumbled This Week. It’s Time to Buy Energy Stocks Like BP. BYD is also cheaper, relatively speaking, than Tesla because its growth isn’t as robust. BYD sales fell in 2019, while Tesla vehicle deliveries grew about 50%. But the entire Chinese new-car market declined by about 8% in 2019. Despite the dip, EV penetration increased in China year over year. BYD has one more thing going for it: Warren Buffett. His Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A) owns more than 8% of the company. Buffett, however, bought a long time ago, back around 2008, when BYD shares were about one-third the price they are today. Still, Buffett appears to believe in the future of electric cars. And, judging by Tesla’s recent market action, most other investors do too. Write to Al Root at allen.root@dowjones.com
