Yong Xiong, Natalie Thomas, David Culver and Helen Regan, CNN
2020-01-25
general
Wuhan coronavirus: Death toll rises to 56
 The death toll from the Wuhan coronavirus in China continues rising as authorities and health care workers struggle to contain the outbreak . Fifty-six people have been killed by the novel coronavirus in China, health officials said on Saturday. Over 1,900 confirmed cases have been reported across the country. China's state-run Xinhua news agency reported that 237 patients are in critical condition. Healthcare workers in the Chinese city of Wuhan say hospitals are running low on supplies as they treat an increasing number of patients. The Chinese central government announced it would send more than 1,200 health workers — as well as 135 People's Liberation Army medical personnel -- to the city in an unprecedented effort to contain the spread of the virus. Read More Lunar New Year celebrations -- the country's most important holiday -- have been greatly impacted in Beijing, Hong Kong and other major cities due to the virus. More than 60 million people are under partial lockdown in the provinces of Hubei and Guangdong. While most confirmed cases of the virus are in China, at least 13 places outside mainland China, including France, Australia and the United States are reporting their first cases. In Canada, health officials on Saturday announced the first "presumptive" positive case of coronavirus. The case is pending additional confirmation from the country's national medical laboratory. A visual guide to the Wuhan coronavirus In Wuhan, ground zero for the virus, four healthcare workers -- including doctors -- have told CNN of the difficulties facing medical crews on the ground. They have asked to remain anonymous to avoid repercussions. Through telephone conversations with CNN and posts on Chinese social media, they told of low hospital resources. In private groups online, those identified as hospital staff are coordinating with members of the public to import protective equipment as they treat an increasing number of infected patients. "In terms of resources, the whole of Wuhan is lacking," one Wuhan-based healthcare worker told CNN by phone. This person said they were looking for more protective clothing, protective goggles and masks. "It's really like we're going into battle stripped to the waist," one healthcare worker added, using a Chinese idiom that equates to "going into battle without armor". One hospital staff member claims healthcare workers have resorted to wearing diapers to work so as to avoid having to remove their HAZMAT suits, which they say are in short supply. A doctor on her Chinese social media Weibo page described similar accounts at another Wuhan hospital. "My family members are definitely worried about me, but I still have to work," another doctor told. But she said that she is hopeful they will ultimately get the gear they need. "Our bosses, our hospital suppliers will definitely find a way to get these stocks to us," she added. It's not clear if these accounts are anecdotal or whether there are widespread shortages across Wuhan. Chinese state media has also shared posts from multiple Wuhan hospitals in which they ask for public donations of medical supplies. They report that one hospital staff member said the current supplies "are only able to sustain three or four days". The Wuhan Health Commission has requisitioned over 10,000 beds from 24 hospitals to be used in the treatment of confirmed and suspected cases. On Friday, Wuhan officials acknowledged that local hospitals were struggling to accommodate people seeking medical attention and said measures were being put into place to alleviate the situation. State media also reported that the city aims to build a 25,000 square meter (269,100 square foot) new facility within a week, increasing hospital capacity by 1,000 beds, and that several medical centers in Hubei province are asking for medical gear donations. Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff wearing protective suits ride down an escalator at Moscow's Sheremetyevo International Airport on Wednesday, March 18. Hide Caption 1 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Hasidic Jewish men take part in a "social distancing" minyan in New York on Tuesday, March 17. Hide Caption 2 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A patient in a biocontainment unit is carried on a stretcher in Rome on March 17. Hide Caption 3 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A pedestrian walks a dog through a quiet street in New York on March 17. Hide Caption 4 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People gather to collect free face masks in New Delhi on March 17. Hide Caption 5 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Dermot Hickey, left, and Phillip Vega ask a pedestrian in New York to take their picture on a thinly trafficked Fifth Avenue on March 17. Many streets across the world are much more bare as people distance themselves from others. In the United States, the White House has advised people not to gather in groups of more than 10. Hide Caption 6 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Students at the Attarkiah Islamic School wear face masks during a ceremony in Thailand's southern province of Narathiwat on March 17. Hide Caption 7 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wait outside a Woolworths store in Sunbury, Australia on March 17. Australian supermarket chains announced special shopping hours for the elderly and people with disabilities so that they can shop in less crowded aisles. Hide Caption 8 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A member of Spain's Military Emergencies Unit carries out a general disinfection at the Malaga airport on Monday, March 16. Hide Caption 9 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Displaced families near Atme, Syria, attend a workshop aimed at spreading awareness about the coronavirus. Hide Caption 10 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak French President Emmanuel Macron is seen on a screen in Paris as he announces new coronavirus containment measures on March 16. France has been put on lockdown, and all nonessential outings are outlawed and can draw a fine of up to €135 ($148). Macron also promised to support French businesses by guaranteeing €300 billion worth of loans and suspending rent and utility bills owed by small companies. Hide Caption 11 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A police officer checks the temperatures of bus passengers at a checkpoint in Manila, Philippines, on March 16. Hide Caption 12 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Flowers are stored prior to their destruction at a flower auction in Aalsmeer, Netherlands, on March 16. Lower demand due to the coronavirus outbreak is threatening the Dutch horticultural sector, forcing the destruction of products. Hide Caption 13 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Two nuns greet neighbors from their balcony in Turin, Italy, on Sunday, March 15. Hide Caption 14 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Pope Francis, inside the Church of San Marcello in Rome's city center, prays at a famous crucifix that believers claim helped to save Romans from the plague in 1522. Hide Caption 15 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers wait for their flights at Marrakesh Airport in Morocco on March 15. Hide Caption 16 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak US Vice President Mike Pence takes a question during a White House briefing about the coronavirus on March 15. Hide Caption 17 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A Sea World employee sprays disinfectant in Jakarta, Indonesia, on Saturday, March 14. Hide Caption 18 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wait in line to go through customs at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport on March 14. Travelers returning from Europe say they were being made to wait for hours at US airports, often in close quarters, as personnel screened them for the coronavirus. Hide Caption 19 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Hundreds of people lined up to enter a Costco in Novato, California, on March 14. Many people have been stocking up on food, toilet paper and other items. As a response to panic buying, retailers in the United States and Canada have started limiting the number of toilet paper that customers can buy in one trip. Hide Caption 20 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A member of the White House physician's office takes a media member's temperature in the White House briefing room on March 14. It was ahead of a news conference with President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence. Hide Caption 21 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Reporters in Arlington, Virginia, sit approximately 4 feet apart during a briefing by Marine Corps Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie on Friday, March 13. Hide Caption 22 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People walk past a closed Broadway theater on March 13 after New York canceled all gatherings over 500 people. Hide Caption 23 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Body temperatures are scanned as people enter the Buddhist temple Wat Pho in Bangkok, Thailand, on March 13. Hide Caption 24 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A Costco customer stands by two shopping carts in Richmond, California, on March 13. Hide Caption 25 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A teacher works in an empty classroom at the Pompeu Fabra University in Barcelona, Spain. Hide Caption 26 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A woman looks at an empty bread aisle in Antwerp, Belgium, on March 13. Hide Caption 27 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Employees of the Greek Parliament wear plastic gloves ahead of the swearing-in ceremony for Greek President Katerina Sakellaropoulou. Hide Caption 28 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A motorcyclist drives through disinfectant sprayed in Jammu, India, on March 13. Hide Caption 29 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers prepare to construct an additional building on a hospital on the outskirts of Moscow. Hide Caption 30 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Paul Boyer, head equipment manager of the NHL's Detroit Red Wings, wheels out equipment bags in Washington on Thursday, March 12. The NHL is among the sports leagues that have suspended their seasons. Hide Caption 31 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Students leave Glacier Peak High School in Snohomish, Washington, on March 12. Beginning the following day, schools in the Snohomish school district planned to be closed through April 24. Hide Caption 32 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak An Uber Eats delivery biker stands at a deserted Piazza di Spagna in Rome. Hide Caption 33 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People at a railway station in Seoul, South Korea, watch a live broadcast of US President Donald Trump on March 12. Trump announced that, in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus, he would sharply restrict travel from more than two dozen European countries. Hide Caption 34 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers in protective suits disinfect Istanbul's Dolmabahce Palace on March 11. Hide Caption 35 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A person wearing a face mask walks outside of a shopping mall in Beijing on March 11. Hide Caption 36 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Police officers restrain the relative of an inmate outside the Sant'Anna jail in Modena, Italy, on March 9. Riots broke out in several Italian jails after visits were suspended to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Hide Caption 37 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff in Wuhan, China, celebrate after all coronavirus patients were discharged from a temporary hospital on March 9. Hide Caption 38 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on March 9. Stocks plummeted as coronavirus worries and an oil price race to the bottom weighed on global financial markets. Hide Caption 39 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Rescuers search for victims at the site of a collapsed hotel in Quanzhou, China, on March 8. The hotel was being used as a coronavirus quarantine center. Hide Caption 40 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak The Grand Princess cruise ship, carrying at least 21 people who tested positive for coronavirus, is seen off the coast of San Francisco on March 8. The ship was being held at sea. Hide Caption 41 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Sumo wrestlers attend a tournament in Osaka, Japan, that was being held behind closed doors because of the coronavirus outbreak. Hide Caption 42 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A couple rides a bicycle at a park in Seoul, South Korea, on March 7. Hide Caption 43 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A volunteer from Blue Sky Rescue uses fumigation equipment to disinfect a residential compound in Beijing on March 5. Hide Caption 44 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Airmen from the California National Guard drop coronavirus testing kits down to the Grand Princess cruise ship off the coast of California on March 5. Hide Caption 45 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Municipal workers are seen at the Kaaba, inside Mecca's Grand Mosque. Saudi Arabia emptied Islam's holiest site for sterilization over coronavirus fears, an unprecedented move after the kingdom suspended the year-round Umrah pilgrimage. Hide Caption 46 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers react as a worker wearing a protective suit disinfects the departure area of a railway station in Hefei, China, on March 4. Hide Caption 47 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Teachers at the Nagoya International School in Japan conduct an online class for students staying at home as a precaution against the spread of coronavirus. Hide Caption 48 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Soldiers spray disinfectant throughout a shopping street in Seoul. Hide Caption 49 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A Muslim worshipper attends a mass prayer against coronavirus in Dakar, Senegal, on March 4. It was after cases were confirmed in the country. Hide Caption 50 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wear face masks in New York's Times Square on March 3. New York reported its first case of coronavirus two days earlier. Hide Caption 51 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A security guard stands on the Shibuya Sky observation deck in Tokyo on March 3. Hide Caption 52 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak US President Donald Trump, flanked by Vice President Mike Pence, left, and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, speaks during a meeting with pharmaceutical executives and the White House coronavirus task force on March 2. Throughout the meeting, Trump was hyperfocused on pressing industry leaders in the room for a timeline for a coronavirus vaccine and treatment. But experts at the table -- from the administration and the pharmaceutical industry -- repeatedly emphasized that a vaccine can't be rushed to market before it's been declared safe for the public. Hide Caption 53 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff stand outside a hospital in Daegu, South Korea, on March 1. Hide Caption 54 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Healthcare workers transfer a patient at the Life Care Center in Kirkland, Washington, on March 1. The long-term care facility is linked to confirmed coronavirus cases. Hide Caption 55 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak British Prime Minister Boris Johnson visits a London laboratory of the Public Health England National Infection Service. Hide Caption 56 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Tomoyuki Sugano, a professional baseball player on the Yomiuri Giants, throws a pitch in an empty Tokyo Dome during a preseason game on February 29. Fans have been barred from preseason games to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Hide Caption 57 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Commuters wearing masks make their way to work during morning rush hour at the Shinagawa train station in Tokyo on February 28. Hide Caption 58 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff transport a coronavirus patient within the Red Cross hospital in Wuhan on February 28. Hide Caption 59 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Inter Milan plays Ludogorets in an empty soccer stadium in Milan, Italy, on February 27. The match was ordered to be played behind closed doors as Italian authorities continue to grapple with the coronavirus outbreak. Hide Caption 60 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A bank clerk disinfects banknotes in China's Sichuan province on February 26. Hide Caption 61 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A child wearing a protective face mask rides on a scooter in an empty area in Beijing. Hide Caption 62 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A Catholic devotee wears a face mask as he is sprinkled with ash during Ash Wednesday services in Paranaque, Philippines, on February 26. Hide Caption 63 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People disinfect Qom's Masumeh shrine in Tehran, Iran, on February 25. Hide Caption 64 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A worker in Daegu stacks plastic buckets containing medical waste from coronavirus patients on February 24. Hide Caption 65 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Paramedics carry a stretcher off an ambulance in Hong Kong on February 23. Hide Caption 66 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People attend a professional soccer match in Kobe, Japan, on February 23. To help stop the spread of the novel coronavirus, the soccer club Vissel Kobe told fans not to sing, chant or wave flags in the season opener against Yokohama FC. Hide Caption 67 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A team of volunteers disinfects a pedestrian bridge in Bangkok, Thailand. Hide Caption 68 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A man rides his bike in Beijing on February 23. Hide Caption 69 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Hospital personnel in Codogno, Italy, carry new beds inside the hospital on February 21. The hospital is hosting some people who have been diagnosed with the novel coronavirus. Hide Caption 70 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Doctors look at a CT scan of a lung at a hospital in Xiaogan, China, on February 20. Hide Caption 71 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A sales clerk wears a mask as she waits for customers at a hat shop in Beijing on February 18. Small companies that help drive China's economy are worried about how much damage the coronavirus outbreak will cause to business. Hide Caption 72 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Buses carrying American passengers arrive at the Haneda Airport in Tokyo on February 17. The passengers were leaving the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship to be repatriated to the United States. Hide Caption 73 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A medical worker rests at the isolation ward of the Red Cross hospital in Wuhan on February 16. Hide Caption 74 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Authorities watch as the Westerdam cruise ship approaches a port in Sihanoukville, Cambodia, on February 13. Despite having no confirmed cases of coronavirus on board, the Westerdam was refused port by four other Asian countries before being allowed to dock in Cambodia. Hide Caption 75 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A worker has his temperature checked on a shuttered commercial street in Beijing on February 12. Hide Caption 76 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Beds are made in the Wuhan Sports Center, which has been converted into a temporary hospital. Hide Caption 77 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A child rides a scooter past a police officer wearing protective gear outside the Hong Mei House in Hong Kong on February 11. More than 100 people evacuated the housing block after four residents in two different apartments tested positive for the coronavirus. Hide Caption 78 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Relatives of quarantined passengers wave at the Diamond Princess cruise ship as it leaves a port in Yokohama, Japan, to dump wastewater and generate potable water. Dozens of people on the ship were infected with coronavirus. Hide Caption 79 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak The Deneway branch of the County Oak Medical Centre is closed amid coronavirus fears in Brighton, England, on February 11. Several locations in and around Brighton were quarantined after a man linked to several coronavirus cases in the United Kingdom came into contact with health-care workers and members of the public. Hide Caption 80 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A police officer, left, wears protective gear as he guards a cordon at the Hong Mei House in Hong Kong on February 11. Hide Caption 81 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A worker wears a protective suit as he waits to screen people entering an office building in Beijing on February 10. China's workforce is slowly coming back to work after the coronavirus outbreak forced many parts of the country to extend the Lunar New Year holiday by more than a week. Hide Caption 82 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Chinese President Xi Jinping has his temperature checked during an appearance in Beijing on February 10. Hide Caption 83 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Photojournalists wearing face masks take photos of a bus carrying passengers after they disembarked from the World Dream cruise ship in Hong Kong on February 9. More than 5,300 people were quarantined on two cruise ships off Hong Kong and Japan. Hide Caption 84 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People participating in a Lunar New Year Parade in New York City hold signs reading, "Wuhan stay strong!" on February 9. Hide Caption 85 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A shopper walks past empty shelves at a grocery store in Hong Kong on February 9. China's Ministry of Commerce encouraged supermarkets and grocery stores to resume operations as the country's voluntary or mandatory quarantines began to take an economic toll. Hide Caption 86 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A worker wearing a protective suit uses a machine to disinfect a business establishment in Shanghai, China, on February 9. Hide Caption 87 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers in protective gear walk near the Diamond Princess cruise ship docked in Yokohama on February 7. Hide Caption 88 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People in Hong Kong attend a vigil February 7 for whistleblower doctor Li Wenliang. Li, 34, died in Wuhan after contracting the virus while treating a patient. Hide Caption 89 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A woman grieves while paying tribute to Li at Li's hospital in Wuhan on February 7. Hide Caption 90 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak The Anthem of the Seas cruise ship is seen docked at the Cape Liberty Cruise Port in Bayonne, New Jersey, on February 7. Passengers were to be screened for coronavirus as a precaution, an official with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention told CNN. Hide Caption 91 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A light installation is displayed by striking members of the Hospital Authority Employees Alliance and other activists at the Hospital Authority building in Hong Kong on February 7. Hide Caption 92 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers are seen on the deck of the Diamond Princess cruise ship, docked at the Yokohama Port on February 7. Hide Caption 93 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Flight attendants wearing face masks make their way through Don Mueang Airport in Bangkok on February 7. Hide Caption 94 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers check sterile medical gloves at a latex-product manufacturer in Nanjing, China, on February 6. Hide Caption 95 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A woman wears a protective mask as she shops in a Beijing market on February 6. Hide Caption 96 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak This aerial photo shows the Leishenshan Hospital that is being built in Wuhan to handle coronavirus patients. Hide Caption 97 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A passenger shows a note from the World Dream cruise ship docked at the Kai Tak cruise terminal in Hong Kong on February 5. Hide Caption 98 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A mask is seen on a statue in Beijing on February 5. Hide Caption 99 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak An ambulance stops at a traffic light in front of the Grand Lisboa Hotel in Macao. The virus turned China's gambling mecca into a ghost town. Hide Caption 100 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A dog in Beijing wears a makeshift mask constructed from a paper cup. Hide Caption 101 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Striking hospital workers in Hong Kong demand the closure of the border with mainland China on February 4. Hide Caption 102 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak The Diamond Princess cruise ship sits anchored in quarantine off the port of Yokohama on February 4. It arrived a day earlier with passengers feeling ill. Hide Caption 103 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A medical worker wearing protective gear waits to take the temperature of people entering Princess Margaret Hospital in Hong Kong on February 4. Hide Caption 104 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical workers in protective suits help transfer patients to a newly completed field hospital in Wuhan. Hide Caption 105 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wearing protective overalls talk outside a Wuhan hotel housing people in isolation on February 3. Hide Caption 106 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A man stands in front of TV screens broadcasting a speech by Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam on February 3. Lam said the city would shut almost all border-control points to the mainland. Hide Caption 107 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A colleague sprays disinfectant on a doctor in Wuhan on February 3. Hide Caption 108 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Commuters in Tokyo walk past an electric board displaying dismal stock prices on February 3, the first business day after the Chinese New Year. Asia's markets recorded their worst day in years as investors finally got a chance to react to the worsening coronavirus outbreak. Hide Caption 109 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical workers move a coronavirus patient into an isolation ward at the Second People's Hospital in Fuyang, China, on February 1. Hide Caption 110 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Children wear plastic bottles as makeshift masks while waiting to check in to a flight at the Beijing Capital Airport on January 30. Hide Caption 111 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers in Hong Kong wear protective masks as they wait to board a train at Lo Wu Station, near the mainland border, on January 30. Hide Caption 112 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A volunteer wearing protective clothing disinfects a street in Qingdao, China, on January 29. Hide Caption 113 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Nanning residents line up to buy face masks from a medical appliance store on January 29. Hide Caption 114 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Lyu Jun, left, a member of a medical team leaving for Wuhan, says goodbye to a loved one in Urumqi, China, on January 28. Hide Caption 115 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A charter flight from Wuhan arrives at an airport in Anchorage, Alaska, on January 28. The US government chartered the plane to bring home US citizens and diplomats from the American consulate in Wuhan. Hide Caption 116 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak South Korean President Moon Jae-in wears a mask to inspect the National Medical Center in Seoul on January 28. Hide Caption 117 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam, center, attends a news conference in Hong Kong on January 28. Lam said China will stop individual travelers to Hong Kong while closing some border checkpoints and restricting flights and train services from the mainland. Hide Caption 118 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers at an airport in Novosibirsk, Russia, check the temperatures of passengers who arrived from Beijing on January 28. Hide Caption 119 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Alex Azar, the US Secretary of Health and Human Services, speaks during a news conference about the American public-health response. Hide Caption 120 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Two residents walk in an empty park in Wuhan on January 27. The city remained on lockdown for a fourth day. Hide Caption 121 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A person wears a protective mask, goggles and coat as he stands in a nearly empty street in Beijing on January 26. Hide Caption 122 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff members bring a patient to the Wuhan Red Cross hospital on January 25. Hide Caption 123 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wear protective masks as they walk under Lunar New Year decorations in Beijing on January 25. Hide Caption 124 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Construction workers in Wuhan begin to work on a special hospital to deal with the outbreak on January 24. Hide Caption 125 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Dr. Allison Arwady, commissioner of the Chicago Department of Public Health, speaks to reporters on January 24 about a patient in Chicago who had been diagnosed with the coronavirus. The patient was the second in the United States to be diagnosed with the illness. Hide Caption 126 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A couple kisses goodbye as they travel for the Lunar New Year holiday in Beijing on January 24. Hide Caption 127 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Workers manufacture protective face masks at a factory in China's Hubei Province on January 23. Hide Caption 128 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Shoppers wear masks in a Wuhan market on January 23. Hide Caption 129 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers are checked by a thermography device at an airport in Osaka, Japan, on January 23. Hide Caption 130 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People wear masks while shopping for vegetables in Wuhan on January 23. Hide Caption 131 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A militia member checks the body temperature of a driver in Wuhan on January 23. Hide Caption 132 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers wear masks as they arrive at the Ninoy Aquino International Airport in Manila, Philippines, on January 23. Hide Caption 133 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A customer holds boxes of particulate respirators at a pharmacy in Hong Kong on January 23. Hide Caption 134 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Passengers wear masks at the high-speed train station in Hong Kong on January 23. Hide Caption 135 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak A woman rides an electric bicycle in Wuhan on January 22. Hide Caption 136 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People in Guangzhou, China, wear protective masks on January 22. Hide Caption 137 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak People go through a checkpoint in Guangzhou on January 22. Hide Caption 138 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Medical staff of Wuhan's Union Hospital attend a gathering on January 22. Hide Caption 139 of 140 Photos: The novel coronavirus outbreak Health officials hold a news conference in Beijing on January 22. Hide Caption 140 of 140 Locking down the virus over Lunar New Year Authorities have imposed indefinite restrictions on public transport and travel. All motor vehicles will be banned in Wuhan's city center starting Sunday to control the flow of people, according to the Wuhan Command Center, the taskforce set up to combat the virus. Only vehicles with special permits, free shuttles and government vehicles will be allowed to circulate. Amid the lockdown, countries like the US and France have been attempting to evacuate their citizens from the central Chinese city. The US government is arranging a charter flight to evacuate American diplomats and citizens from Wuhan, a US official with knowledge of the matter told CNN. A lot has changed since China's SARS outbreak 17 years ago. But some things haven't The French government says it's planning to set up a bus service to move French nationals out of Wuhan. Meanwhile, 56 Indian students have been trapped in Wuhan for three days, with some afraid to leave their dorm room and fearful of running out of food. Ganesan Deepshikha, a student at the Wuhan University School Of Medicine, told CNN that the students have been told by the Indian Embassy that they are safe in Wuhan but have not received any assistance. The virus, which was first discovered in Wuhan in December, has spread to every province in China, except the remote autonomous region of Tibet. Among those infected is a 2-year-old girl in the southern region of Guangxi, the local health authority said. She is believed to be the youngest patient infected. The week-long Lunar New Year holiday, which began Saturday, has led to concerns that the outbreak could quickly accelerate, as hundreds of millions of people travel across the country to visit friends and relatives. Lunar New Year is to China what the Christmas-New Year holiday period is to the United States -- except China's 1.4 billion population is more than four times that of the US. In many cities, festivities have been called off. Authorities in Beijing have canceled all large-scale Lunar New Year celebrations, including traditional fairs and celebrations around temples. Shanghai Disneyland has temporarily closed its doors. Seven blockbuster movies that were set to hit theaters this weekend have been canceled or postponed. Businesses are also taking measures to protect staff and the public. On Saturday, coffee giant Starbucks said it has closed all 90 of its Hubei stores indefinitely. The closures will continue throughout the Spring Festival, which runs until the end of January. "All Starbucks stores and special star delivery in Hubei will be temporarily closed. Hubei employees are asked to rest at home, minimize going out, take care to protect themselves and their families. All store employees who were scheduled to work during the closing period will be paid as usual," a statement from the company said. A global concern JUST WATCHED What do you need to know about Coronavirus? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What do you need to know about Coronavirus? 02:29 On Thursday, the World Health Organization (WHO) moved to declare the coronavirus an emergency within China -- but refrained from classifying the outbreak as an epidemic of international concern. Mounting evidence suggests the virus is spreading outside mainland China, however, with 13 countries and territories reporting confirmed cases, including the United States and France. Australia confirmed that three men who traveled from China to Sydney had tested positive, health authorities in the city said. The country has now confirmed a total of four cases. Nepal also confirmed its first case, a spokesman for the country's Health Ministry told CNN. The patient is a 31-year-old Nepali man studying for his PhD in Wuhan, spokesman Mahendra Kumar Shrestha said. The student flew to Nepal earlier this month and was admitted to a hospital in Kathmandu on January 13 with fever and respiratory problems. In South Korea, the country's Centers for Disease Control has announced a third confirmed case of the virus. A 54-year-old South Korean man who lives in Wuhan and traveled to South Korea on January 20 called a hotline on Saturday to report his symptoms, the agency said. What it will take to stop the Wuhan coronavirus Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam announced that the Hong Kong Disease contingency plan has been upgraded from "serious" to "emergency" level. Schools in the Chinese territory will be suspended until February 17. On Thursday, David Heymann, the chairman of a WHO committee gathering data on the outbreak, said the virus spreads more easily from person to person than previously thought. "We are now seeing second and third generation spread," Heymann said. Coronaviruses are transmitted by animals and people, and the Wuhan strain has been linked to a market in the city that was selling seafood and live animals, including wild species. Third generation means that someone who became infected after handling animals at the market spreads the virus to someone else, who then spreads it to a third person. The announcement marks a development in the progress of the spread of the virus. Heymann said there is no evidence at this point that the virus is airborne and could be spread across a room, as happens with the flu or measles. CNN's Pauline Lockwood, Angus Watson, Chermaine Lee, Junko Ogura, Steven Jiang, Sugam Pokharel, Julia Hollingsworth, Joshua Berlinger, Tara John and Vedika Sud contributed reporting.
