Samantha Schwartz
2020-01-07
tech
DHS warns of retaliation from Iran, potential cyberattacks
U.S. agencies are urging proactive measures without knowing when or if an attack will occur. If companies have sufficient security protocols, "admins aren't in a state of emergency right now," said Rosa Smothers, senior VP of Cyber Operations at KnowBe4 and former CIA technical intelligence officer, in an emailed statement to CIO Dive. ​ However, Iranian threat actors could already be "lying dormant" in U.S. computer networks. Cybersecurity experts believe a domestic cyberattack is the most likely retaliation from Iran, reports CIO Dive's sister publication Utility Dive.​ Disruptive and destructive cyber operations, including finance, energy and telecommunications organizations. Espionage and intellectual property theft obtained using cyber measures to understand "strategic direction and policy making," according to the advisory. "Critical infrastructure must remain vigilant and utilize security solutions such as air gaping," said Smothers. Iran has increased its cyber capabilities over the years, in an effort to centralize attacks while targeting sectors. However, Iran is likely to execute a cautionary response because its cyber abilities have yet met those of the U.S. or Russia, according to Utility Dive. "We know [advanced persistent threat groups] 33 and 34 are associated with Iranian state sponsored hackers," said Smothers. APT33 and APT34 are known Iranian hacking groups with a penchant for wiper-style cyberattacks. "Every company in the [supervisory control and data acquisition​]​ and [integrated system control​] space should already be proactive in safeguarding against these," she said. Iranian cyberattacks have occurred globally. In 2012, Iran launched a major cyberattack on oil and gas company Saudi Aramaco. The attacks moved stateside, when in 2014 a Las Vegas Sands casino was hit by an Iranian cyberattack. A dam in New York was targeted in 2016. Responsibilities and titles are shifting as businesses rearchitect what role technology plays in core operations. With IT spend under scrutiny, don't fall for these budget missteps impacting businesses' bottom lines. Subscribe to CIO Dive to get the must-read news & insights in your inbox. Discover announcements from companies in your industry. The COVID-19 pandemic, and ensuing recession, turned security strategies upside down. The next step for H&M is deploying machine learning component libraries as retail dives deeper into digital.
