Bill McLoughlin
2020-01-20
general
Dog food alert: Food Standards Authority issues immediate recall after salmonella found
 An immediate recall has been issued after traces of salmonella were found in certain products. The discovery was made in the Happy Hounds brand, who is now recalling three types of its frozen food range. A spokesman for the Food Standards Agency (FSA) said: “Our advice to pet owners: if you have bought any of the above products do not use them. “Instead, return them to the store from where they were bought for a full refund. “When handling and serving raw pet food it is always advised to clean utensils and feeding bowls thoroughly after use. “Consumers should wash hands thoroughly after handling raw pet food, bowls, utensils or after contact with the faeces of animals.   “Raw pet food should be stored separately from any food especially ready to eat foods. “Care should be taken when defrosting to avoid cross-contamination of foods and surfaces.” Points of sale notices will be put up in all stores which sell the food. These notices explain why the food has been recalled and offer advice to anyone who has bought the product. JUST IN: Coronavirus crisis: Fears of pandemic grow as three die  There are three products which have been identified as being at risk of the bacteria. Frozen chicken and beef sleeve food and frozen chicken mince sleeve food at a weight of 1kg, batch code 1205. The remaining food is frozen chicken mince, weighing 2.5kg with the same batch code. Salmonella can cause illness in both humans and animals. DON'T MISSUK airports not screening for deadly virus after 17 new cases [Latest]Mysterious virus 'expected' to spread to UK amid China cover-up panic [Latest]China mystery virus: US begins screening travellers after second death [Latest]  Symptoms of the bacteria include having a fever, diarrhoea and abdominal cramps. Unfortunately, infected animals may not display signs of the bacteria unless it progresses to diarrhoea. Moreover, the bacteria can be contracted by handling the product. Special notice has also been issued due to the infection being transmitted by touching any feeding bowls or utensils which have been in contact with the product. The warning from the FSA comes after Waitrose was forced to recall its two-pack of Aberdeen Angus burgers on January 15. The warning was for any customer with an allergy or intolerance to wheat or gluten. The FSA released a statement of the recall of the product: “Waitrose is recalling the above product from customers and has been advised to contact the relevant allergy support organisations, which will tell their members about the recall.  “The company has also issued a point-of-sale notice to its customers. “These notices explain to customers why the product is being recalled and tell them what to do if they have bought the product.” See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
