Luke Hawker 
2020-01-20
general
Coronavirus warning: Outbreak hits Shanghai as cases soar - tourism warning
 China state television confirmed a total of 217 cases of the pneumonia virus had been discovered in the central city of Wuhan by 6pm local time (10am GMT) on Monday. The deadly outbreak has now swept more than 500 miles from Wuhan to China’s largest city, Shanghai, located on the central coast. Authorities in Thailand and in Japan have already identified at least three cases, all involving recent travel from China. Three people have so far died from the virus. The virus belongs to the same family of coronaviruses known as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). SARS killed nearly 800 people globally during a 2002 outbreak that also started in China. Symptoms include fever, chills and shortness of breath.  China’s National Health Commission said experts have judged the current outbreak to be “preventable and controllable”. However, the source and how the virus is transmitted from human-to-human is not yet known. A spokesman for the Commission said: “However, the source of the new type of coronavirus has not been found.  “We do not fully understand how the virus is transmitted, and changes in the virus still need to be closely monitored.” Chinese President Xi Jinping said the health of Chinese citizens is his “top priority” and called for the disease to be “resolutely curbed”. President Xi said: “People’s lives and health should be given top priority and the spread of the outbreak should be resolutely curbed.” READ MORE: Coronavirus crisis: Fears of pandemic grow as three die  There are growing fears the virus could spread further in the coming days as millions prepare to celebrate the Chinese New Year. Millions of Chinese nationals will be travelling domestically and abroad for the celebration on January 25. The deputy director of the National Infection Service has said the risk of the virus spreading to the UK is “very low” and confirmed it is working with the World Health Organisation. DON'T MISS China Coronavirus outbreak: How many have REALLY been infected? [EXPLAINER]Disease X: 'SARS-like' virus spreading through China prompts alert [INSIGHT]Mysterious virus 'expected' to spread to UK amid China cover-up panic [ANALYSIS]  Dr Nick Phin said: “Based on the available evidence, the current risk to the UK is very low. “We are working with the WHO and other international partners, have issued advice to the NHS and are keeping the situation under constant review.” He added: “People travelling to Wuhan should maintain good hand, respiratory and personal hygiene and should seek medical attention if they develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of visiting the area.” See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
