Leah Sinclair
2020-01-21
general
Coronavirus warning: US confirms first case of disease in Seattle - is it safe to travel?
 The man is a resident of Snohomish County, Washington, and recently experienced symptoms after returning from a trip to the region around Wuhan, China, where the outbreak began.According to the New York Times, the man was hospitalised with pneumonia last week and infection with the coronavirus was confirmed Monday afternoon.This is believed to be the first reported case of the coronavirus in the United States after it spread from China to Japan, South Korea and Thailand. Coronaviruses are a group of viruses which included the likes of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS). These types of illness are transmitted between animals and people, which is why the market in Wuhan – where live animals were sold – has been shut. The illness causes a type of pneumonia and its symptoms include fever and difficulty in breathing, which are similar to many other respiratory diseases. The virus has so far infected more than 300 people and killed six.  READ MORE: Storm Gloria: Two dead as weather wreaks havoc in Spain  Since emerging in Wuhan, the virus has spread south to Shenzhen in the Guangdong province, east to the Zhejiang province near Shanghai and north to the municipalities of Beijing and Tianjin. Two cases of the virus have been reported in Thailand, another in South Korea and one case in Japan. An Australian man has been quarantined in his home in Brisbane after being suspected of having the virus after he returned from a visit to Wuhan. One British tourist is fighting for his life as he appears to have the virus. Backpacker Ashley Shorley was airlifted to hospital by a specialised seaplane after falling ill on Thailand’s Koh Phi Phi island. The 32-year-old’s symptoms appear to be consistent with the Chinese coronavirus. It is understood that he is the first Briton to have contracted the virus, as fears of a pandemic widens. DON'T MISS:Coronavirus: WHO warn deadly disease ‘expected to spread through China and abroad’Coronavirus: Doctor warned of coronavirus 'big risk' 5 YEARS before China outbreakCoronavirus symptoms: Six signs to watch out for as the deadly illness rips through China  Speaking to Express.co.uk, the World Health Organisation (WHO) shared how travellers can protect themselves from the coronavirus. “WHO recommends health authorities work with travel, transport and tourism sectors to provide travellers with information to reduce the general risk of acute respiratory infections via travel health clinics, travel agencies, conveyance operators and at points of entry.” WHO added that the best chances of reducing exposure to and transmission of a range of illnesses including the coronavirus is primarily in safe food practices.  They advise: WHO will meet tomorrow to decide whether to declare the outbreak an international public health emergency. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
