Tim Redigolo
2020-01-22
general
China coronavirus MAPPED: Where has Coronavirus struck in China?
 The Coronavirus has, in addition to striking in several Chinese provinces, already crossed borders with cases reported in Thailand, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and the US. One man is in quarantine in Brisbane, Australia, and is suspected of having the virus. The virus originated in the city of Wuhan with a now-closed seafood market confirmed as the source. The Wuhan virus belongs to the same family of infections as SARS, which originated in southern China in 2002 before spreading to 26 countries, infecting more than 8,000 people and killing around 800. The Coronavirus is also similar to the MERS or Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, which first developed in the Middle East and killed 787 people in 2015. These types of illness are transmitted between animals and people, which is why the market in Wuhan – where live animals were sold – has been shut. READ MORE: China on alert as doctors warn of dangerous 'super-spreader' coronavirus phenomenon  As of January 22, nine people are reported dead as a result of contracting the Coronavirus. The illness causes a type of pneumonia and its symptoms include fever and difficulty in breathing, which are similar to many other respiratory diseases. The official infection total, as of January 22, is 440. But this figure could be far higher, according to experts, who have suggested as many as 1,700 people may be carrying the coronavirus.   Since emerging in Wuhan, the virus has spread to the provinces of Yunnan, Guangdong, Sichuan, Henan, Hubei, Zhejiang, Shandong and Hunan as well as to the municipalities of Beijing and Tianjin, as well as the autonomous region Macau. Cases of the virus have been reported overseas in Thailand, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and lately the US. An Australian man has been quarantined in his home in Brisbane after being suspected of having the virus after he returned from a visit to Wuhan. The United States and many Asian countries have stepped up the screening of travellers from Wuhan. DON'T MISS:Six signs to watch out for as the deadly illness rips through China [INSIGHT]'Action needed!' as WHO ponders international threat - 'Waiting for deaths?' [LATEST]Coronavirus could be in AUSTRALIA as man tested for virus [NEWS]  The virus could yet spread further within Chinese borders ahead of its New Year celebrations on Saturday. The Spring Festival is on January 25 and millions of people are expected to travel across China in what is known as humanity’s largest migration. Chinese authorities have advised people to look out for symptoms of fever, coughing, breathing difficulties and pneumonia. Chinese President Xi Jinping said: “People’s lives and health should be given top priority and the spread of the outbreak should be resolutely curbed.” China’s leaders have warned lower-level officials not to cover up the spread of the virus. In a stark message, the political body responsible for law and order said that anyone who concealed new cases would “be nailed on the pillar of shame for eternity”. The World Health Organisation, which is holding an emergency meeting on Wednesday in Geneva, said on Tuesday that the coronavirus was likely to spread to other parts of China and possibly other countries in the coming days. WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic said: “More cases should be expected in other parts of China and possibly other countries in the coming days.” See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
