Joel Day 
2020-01-22
general
Coronavirus outbreak: Horror fears deadly virus ‘could mutate’ as death toll rises
 China’s health ministry has confirmed the instance of human-to-human transmission of a mysterious Sars-like virus that has spread across the country. As well as this, reports have emerged that China's Macau province has seen the first instance of a person carrying the virus. The news has fuelled anxiety about the prospect of coronavirus spreading more easily across borders - just as millions begin travelling for lunar new year celebrations. Confirming two cases of the infection in China’s Guangdong province having been caused by human-to-human transmission, Zhong Nanshan, a respiratory expert, warned over the potential for the virus to garner strength as it passes from east to west. Over the weekend, the number of people infected with the virus tripled, with some 139 new cases. It brought the total number of people infected to 440 cases.   Most of those infected are isolated to the province of Wuhan, though the respiratory illness has also been detected in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen. The new strain of coronavirus causes a type of pneumonia. The virus is thought to have originated from a market. Though, officials and scientists are yet to determine exactly how it has been spreading so quickly. JUST IN: Coronavirus symptoms: Where does coronavirus come from? Is it deadly?  Many have drawn parallels to the Sars virus - also a coronavirus - that broke out in the early 2000s. The death toll then came to 774 and spanned across a dozen countries - mostly in Asia. Analysis of the genetic code of the new virus shows it i more closely related to Sars than any other human coronavirus. Reports have emerged that the actual number of those infected has been largely understated. DON'T MISS Coronavirus outbreak: How to prevent coronavirus [LATEST]Coronavirus: WHO warn deadly disease ‘expected to spread abroad' [UPDATE]Coronavirus outbreak strikes US as first case declared  [ANALYSIS]   Experts told the BBC that the amount of people involved is closer to 1,700 than the 440 reported. Yesterday, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has confirmed the first case of Coronavirus in the United States after a traveller from China was diagnosed in Seattle in the Washington state. Although most of the cases reported so far have been isolated to China, some have emerged in Thailand South Korea and Japan. The symptoms of coronavirus are fever, fatigue, sore throat and a cough.  Patients may also have difficulties in breathing. When the virus was first contracted by humans from a seafood market in Wuhan, experts believed it could not be easily spread from human to human. All coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they can be transferred between people and animals. In 1918 the Spanish flu pandemic infected about 500 million people globally, which was a third of the world’s population.  However, a sharp rise in the disease since its initial discovery in December has proved the doctors wrong. China has sold out of face masks and officials at airports are trying to control the outbreak. The masks were being sold for ten times their original price. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
