Bobby Vincent
2020-01-12
general
When will fans return to Premier League games? Government verdict as lockdown continues
 Since the coronavirus pandemic postponed football in March 2020, the sport has been without full stadiums, with the majority of the period since being played behind closed doors. There was a brief spell when supporters were allowed back into grounds, depending on what tier they were in, but now with the country in full lockdown the return of supporters to games looks unclear.      There was some doubt about whether football would be postponed again following Prime Ministers Boris Johnson’s announcement of a third nationwide lockdown, but elite sport in England was given the all-clear. Matches are now once again being played in front of empty stands and a return date for fans has not yet been decided. Here is what some of the key figures in sport have said about the lack of supporters and when we could expect stadiums to have full capacity once again. EFL chairman Rick Parry has said that the decision on whether having a Covid-19 vaccination will allow you to enter a football stadium will be taken in the next few months. The UK is currently undergoing a mass vaccine rollout as it looks to immunise as many people as possible from the potentially fatal virus. JUST IN: Arsenal boss Arteta gets unexpected Gabriel Martinelli injury boost    Parry told the PA news agency in December: “I don’t know yet. That’s the next step. The points we’ve made consistently over recent months have been not only are we very experienced at managing crowds in probably the safest environment that there is, we also have our own track and trace built by definition. “We do know who our supporters are, we do know who’s in the stadiums, so how that’s going to be linked to the rolling out of the vaccine, honestly I think that’s a post-Christmas issue so I don’t want to commit to that. We’ll take it one step at a time.” Oliver Dowden, the secretary of state for digital, culture, media and sport, was asked about concerns over the Rugby League World Cup last month. “We’re very much looking forward to it as the main event of 2021,” Dowden said about the tournament that is scheduled to take place in the autumn in England. “Of course we’re working very, very closely indeed with them. I very much hope by that point we’ll be able to have a full return of fans to stadiums, but of course we’ll ensure that contingencies are in place.” Premier League managers have also been vocal about the effects that having no supporters in attendance is having on their teams.   Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta thinks that having no fans at the Emirates Stadium is having a detrimental impact on his attempt to rebuild the Gunners. “What I can tell you is that obviously when you are trying to build a new project, there is something that you need and that is your people and your crowd,” Arteta explained. “If not, you are unable to generate that synergy, that cohesion, that unity within them to feel that they belong to what we are trying to do - that they feel united, they feel close to what we’re trying to do. “It is really difficult and we are now suffering when they are not in the stadium because I really want them to see closely, not on TV but really closely, what the team is trying to do, what the players are putting in so they can feel that connection with them.” Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp said he would never take a full stadium for granted again after enjoying 2,000 supporters attending the Reds’ home games for under a month. “It’s a massive benefit from an emotional point of view. It’s nice, much more enjoyable,” the German coach said. “Results-wise, it has not made the biggest difference - we played in an empty stadium and with 2,000 fans and won most games, so it’s not an advantage.    “What this year (2020) has shown us is to enjoy the good things for as long as they are there, and I will never, ever in my life take a full stadium for granted. “Working at Mainz, Dortmund and Liverpool, I don’t think I played a home game for a long time in a not sold-out stadium. “I enjoyed it but I didn’t think how special it was. I will do much more in the future.” It is clear that Premier League managers would love to have fans back in their stadiums, but that eventuality is dependent on the second wave of coronavirus being brought under control. The continuing rollout of Covid-19 vaccines and previous experience of safely handling 2,000 fans on match days offers hope that the return of supporters might not be too far around the corner. But with the UK experiencing a second wave of coronavirus, for the time being the likes of Arteta and Klopp will have to continue operating inside empty stadiums.  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
