Emily Ferguson
2020-01-23
general
Coronavirus panic: Terrified Chinese TV presenters wear face masks during studio broadcast
 Coronavirus has claimed its 18th victim this afternoon, with at least 633 other confirmed causes of the deadly virus. The spread of the disease has sparked panic, prompting authorities to lockdown several cities. A number of Chinese broadcasters have been spotted taking extra precautions, as they opt to wear face masks while on air. The TV hosts have said they are wearing the masks, despite the obvious hindrance, to demonstrate the correct way to wear the basic protection. Yesterday a video emerged of a Hubei Economic Channel presenter wearing a mask during the news broadcast on TV. The presenter then clarified she did not wear the mask for broadcasting, but wanted to show people how to wear the mask correctly. She also appealed to the public to wear masks when going outside.   Other journalists in Hubei and Wuhan have also been seen wearing the masks while on air. Authorities in Wuhan also made it mandatory to wear a mask in public places, according to state media. According to Xinhau, the city government warned: “Those who disregard the warning will be punished according to relevant laws and regulations.” Local authorities have also demanded its residents wear masks in public places and urged government staff to wear them at work. JUST IN: Ireland on high alert as Dublin patient returns from China with fever  The significant increase in illnesses reported just this week come as millions of Chinese travel for the Lunar New Year, one of the world’s largest annual migrations of people. Cases have been reported in Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand and the US. There are fears the virus has reached the UK, with five people currently being tested in Scotland as a “precautionary measure”. Major airports are screening international arrivals travelling from China, in an effort to prevent the spread of the disease. DON'T MISS:Coronavirus lockdown: Ezhou sealed off by panicked officials [DEVELOPED]Coronavirus latest: Can wearing a mask protect you from coronavirus? [INSIGHT]Coronavirus China lockdown: Terrifying footage emerges from Wuhan [VIDEO]  There are no medicines or vaccines developed specifically to tackle the Wuhan virus. But experts in Davos announced earlier today that scientists were working on one. Symptoms of the strain are common to that of influenza, with patients reporting a fever, cough and other symptoms of pneumonia. Antibiotics are unable to treat the virus.  It appears to have originated in a seafood and meat market in Wuhan, and preliminary research suggests the virus was passed to humans from snakes, as coronaviruses mostly infect animals. It has also emerged the outbreak could have been caused by people eating bat soup - a popular dish in Wuhan. The World Health Organisation’s emergency committee has said it is “too early” to declare an international public health emergency over the outbreak. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
