Chanel Georgina
2020-01-23
general
High blood pressure: Eating bananas could keep the condition at bay
 More than two decades of research have proven potassium-rich foods can help lower blood pressure readings. Eating two bananas (each consisting of about 420mg of potassium) everyday has shown to lower blood pressure by 10 percent within a week. The study was conducted back in 1999, in Manipal, southern India and involved human participants from the Kasturba medical college. The researchers concluded in the Indian medical journal Current Science that natural compounds in bananas act in a similar way to drugs used to manage high blood pressure (hypertension). In particular, they were referring to anti-hypertensive drugs branched as ACE-inhibitors. And they state that Ace-inhibitors prevent the action of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), which is responsible for forming a substance angiotensin-2 that constricts blood vessels and raises the pressure inside them. The National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) lists four main types of medication offered to manage high blood pressure: ACE inhibitor, ARB, CCB, Diuretic. ACE inhibitor – angiotensin converting enzymeNames of these medicines commonly end in ‘pril’. For example, lisinopril, perindopril and ramipril. ARB - angiotensin receptor blockerNames of these medicines commonly end in ‘artan’. For example, candesartan, losartan and valsartan. READ MORE: Coronavirus latest: Dr Zoe Williams reveals vital sign UK doctors are looking out for  CCB – calcium channel blockerNames of these medicines commonly end in ‘dipine’. For example, amlodipine, felodipine and lacidipine. DiureticA common example is indapamide. There can be side effects for all these drugs, but not everybody gets side effects. “It is not possible to know in advance what will happen to any individual person,” NICE says. DON'T MISS:How to live longer: This simple activity may increase your life expectancy [STUDY]Heart attack symptoms: What is a ‘mild’ heart attack? Signs of the deadly condition [INSIGHT]Visceral fat level: Three ways to measure how much of the harmful belly fat you have [TIPS] Any medical treatment to manage high blood pressure will be discussed and decided upon between patient and doctor. Blood Pressure UK – a charity dedicated to lowering the nation’s blood pressure – support the findings that potassium-rich fruit, such as bananas, help to lower blood pressure. The American Heart Association also agrees that foods filled with potassium are important in managing hypertension, as potassium lessens the effects of sodium (salt) within the body. Additionally, potassium helps to ease tension in blood vessel walls, which further reduces blood pressure.  The charity recommended potassium intake for an average adult is 4,700mg per day, and lists other potassium-rich foods:  Do note that too much potassium can be harmful in people with kidney disorders. As kidneys become less able to remove potassium, too much of the mineral may build up. Staying away from drinking too much alcohol (no more than three to four units a day for men, and two to three units a day for women) is also recommended. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
