By Mike Baker
2020-01-23
business
A Scramble to Retrace the Steps of the First Wuhan Coronavirus Case in the U.S.
SEATTLE — Health officials scrambled on Wednesday to contact more than a dozen people who may have been exposed to the United States’ first case of the Wuhan coronavirus, even as regulators sought to assure the public there was little risk from an illness that has rapidly spread across Asia, killing at least 17 people. The patient, a man in his 30s who fell ill after traveling to China, has cooperated in helping public health workers trace his path from the Wuhan region of China to his home in Snohomish County, Wash., north of Seattle, health officials said. Officials said they have been working to identify people who had close contact with the patient once his symptoms began to flourish. They do not believe he was symptomatic on his travel home, but the state health department said that out of “an abundance of caution,” the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention would notify passengers on his flight. The primary focus, however, is trying to contact other patients at the clinic the man visited on Sunday, a hospital official said. He reported then that he was sick and concerned about the prospect of a coronavirus infection. “We’re really pleased with the progress that we’re making,” John Wiesman, the secretary of health in Washington State, said at a news conference on Wednesday. Health workers have reached out to 16 people who may have had close contact with the patient, all of them located in either Snohomish County or in Seattle’s King County. That number may grow as the investigation continues, the officials said. They said they planned to remain in daily contact with those people to monitor any possible symptoms but have not asked them to isolate themselves, under the assumption that this variation of coronavirus, which researchers are only beginning to understand, operates like other versions that transmit only once someone becomes symptomatic. Officials believe that the virus is transmitted through the air by coughing and sneezing, by close personal contact such as touching an infected person, and from touching a surface with the virus on it before touching the mouth, nose or eyes. The new virus emerged in China at the end of December and spread to other countries in Asia. The outbreak, which has sickened more than 540 people and left at least 17 dead, has triggered extensive protections around the globe, including extra screening and protocols for travelers coming from the Wuhan region in China. In the United States, passengers from Wuhan are being funneled to airports in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Atlanta, Chicago and New York, where screening stations have been set up. Chinese authorities escalated their own actions, announcing plans to close off the city of Wuhan by canceling planes and trains scheduled to leave the area of more than 11 million people. The World Health Organization has been considering whether to declare an international emergency. In Washington State, officials declined to discuss additional details about the patient or the specifics of his travel, saying they would publicly disclose them only if they had trouble making contact with people who might be at risk. While public health leaders said they saw minimal risk to the public, they also said the case in Snohomish County may not end up being the only one. “We have our first case in the U.S.,” Mr. Wiesman said. “I would expect that at some point we’re going to have more cases in the U.S.” Updated June 12, 2020 So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited paper published in April suggests that people are most infectious about two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that 44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was “very rare,”  but she later walked back that statement. Touching contaminated objects and then infecting ourselves with the germs is not typically how the virus spreads. But it can happen. A number of studies of flu, rhinovirus, coronavirus and other microbes have shown that respiratory illnesses, including the new coronavirus, can spread by touching contaminated surfaces, particularly in places like day care centers, offices and hospitals. But a long chain of events has to happen for the disease to spread that way. The best way to protect yourself from coronavirus — whether it’s surface transmission or close human contact — is still social distancing, washing your hands, not touching your face and wearing masks. A study by European scientists is the first to document a strong statistical link between genetic variations and Covid-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus. Having Type A blood was linked to a 50 percent increase in the likelihood that a patient would need to get oxygen or to go on a ventilator, according to the new study. The unemployment rate fell to 13.3 percent in May, the Labor Department said on June 5, an unexpected improvement in the nation’s job market as hiring rebounded faster than economists expected. Economists had forecast the unemployment rate to increase to as much as 20 percent, after it hit 14.7 percent in April, which was the highest since the government began keeping official statistics after World War II. But the unemployment rate dipped instead, with employers adding 2.5 million jobs, after more than 20 million jobs were lost in April. Mass protests against police brutality that have brought thousands of people onto the streets in cities across America are raising the specter of new coronavirus outbreaks, prompting political leaders, physicians and public health experts to warn that the crowds could cause a surge in cases. While many political leaders affirmed the right of protesters to express themselves, they urged the demonstrators to wear face masks and maintain social distancing, both to protect themselves and to prevent further community spread of the virus. Some infectious disease experts were reassured by the fact that the protests were held outdoors, saying the open air settings could mitigate the risk of transmission. Exercise researchers and physicians have some blunt advice for those of us aiming to return to regular exercise now: Start slowly and then rev up your workouts, also slowly. American adults tended to be about 12 percent less active after the stay-at-home mandates began in March than they were in January. But there are steps you can take to ease your way back into regular exercise safely. First, “start at no more than 50 percent of the exercise you were doing before Covid,” says Dr. Monica Rho, the chief of musculoskeletal medicine at the Shirley Ryan AbilityLab in Chicago. Thread in some preparatory squats, too, she advises. “When you haven’t been exercising, you lose muscle mass.” Expect some muscle twinges after these preliminary, post-lockdown sessions, especially a day or two later. But sudden or increasing pain during exercise is a clarion call to stop and return home. States are reopening bit by bit. This means that more public spaces are available for use and more and more businesses are being allowed to open again. The federal government is largely leaving the decision up to states, and some state leaders are leaving the decision up to local authorities. Even if you aren’t being told to stay at home, it’s still a good idea to limit trips outside and your interaction with other people. Common symptoms include fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of breath. Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu, making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are less common. The C.D.C. has also added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days. If air travel is unavoidable, there are some steps you can take to protect yourself. Most important: Wash your hands often, and stop touching your face. If possible, choose a window seat. A study from Emory University found that during flu season, the safest place to sit on a plane is by a window, as people sitting in window seats had less contact with potentially sick people. Disinfect hard surfaces. When you get to your seat and your hands are clean, use disinfecting wipes to clean the hard surfaces at your seat like the head and arm rest, the seatbelt buckle, the remote, screen, seat back pocket and the tray table. If the seat is hard and nonporous or leather or pleather, you can wipe that down, too. (Using wipes on upholstered seats could lead to a wet seat and spreading of germs rather than killing them.) Taking one’s temperature to look for signs of fever is not as easy as it sounds, as “normal” temperature numbers can vary, but generally, keep an eye out for a temperature of 100.5 degrees Fahrenheit or higher. If you don’t have a thermometer (they can be pricey these days), there are other ways to figure out if you have a fever, or are at risk of Covid-19 complications. The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. After the first American patient visited a clinic on Sunday, a few days after returning from China, doctors asked him to stay home and isolated as they worked with the C.D.C. to test whether he had been infected by the new coronavirus. After confirming the illness, officials later coordinated with emergency medical technicians to bring the man to Providence Regional Medical Center in the city of Everett, where a containment unit had been built during the most recent Ebola outbreaks, said Dr. Jay Cook, the hospital’s chief medical officer. The unit has a negative airflow to filter any air coming out of the room, and an adjacent room for workers to put on protective equipment if needed. Dr. Cook said the patient was doing well under treatment by a team of caregivers that volunteered to handle patients who have illnesses of particular concern or that may be highly contagious. He said he was hopeful the patient could be discharged in the near future. As the coronavirus has continued to spread through Asia, and as health officials try to determine how it spreads and how to contain it, regulators in the United States have sought to assure the public that there was little risk — while acknowledging that there may be anxiety about the arrival of an illness that has drawn global attention. “I think that’s understandable given the amount of uncertainty and the new nature of this virus,” Dr. Cook said. Symptoms of the virus include runny nose, headache, cough and fever. Officials said that anyone who feels sick should follow the usual protocols of staying home from work, covering coughs and washing hands. They said people who were ill after traveling to the Wuhan region should contact a health care provider.
