John W. Schoen@johnwschoenBerkeley Lovelace Jr.@BerkeleyJr
2020-01-23
finance
This map shows the latest spread of coronavirus
The number of reported coronavirus cases continues to grow as the outbreak spreads around the world, according to the latest data collected by researchers at Johns Hopkins University. But that's just the number of reported and confirmed cases from an outbreak that has posed a series of challenges for researchers trying to collect reliable data on the spread and severity of the new disease. "There is no way to get everything," said Dr. Este Geraghty, chief medical officer at ESRI, a mapping software company that is working with researchers at Johns Hopkins University to map the outbreak. "We're always going to have things missing in the data." Some researchers believe the actual number of coronavirus cases may be much higher that the reported data. Cases of the virus have been confirmed very state in the U.S., along with Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that usually infect animals but can sometimes evolve and spread to humans. Symptoms in humans include fever, coughing and shortness of breath, which can progress to pneumonia. Physicians recommended basic hygiene, including washing hands with soap and water and avoiding touching eyes, nose or mouth. The previously unknown, flu-like coronavirus strain — now known as COVID-19 — is believed to have emerged from an animal market in Wuhan, a city of 11 million in Hubei. A group of scientists said last month that snakes, particularly the Chinese krait and the Chinese cobra, may have been the source of the virus. But officials from the World Health Organization cast doubt on that theory, saying there was "no conclusive evidence." The challenge of data collection in any outbreak starts from the moment someone contracts the targeted illness. Some of those infected may be reluctant or unable to go to a hospital or clinic; those cases will go unreported until they do so. Others may have been infected with the disease and show no symptoms — but may still be able to transmit the virus to others. The result is that there is no "official" tally of cases, and the number of reported cases at any moment in time can change rapidly. One reason for frequent changes in the numbers is that a shortage of test kits in some areas has meant that health workers have had to resort to other methods of diagnosing the illness, and those methods may produce false positives that are later deleted from the latest tally. Even when test kits are available, the initial results are typically sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a process that can take up to a week to produce a final confirmation. When a patient presents at a hospital or clinic with symptoms, each diagnosed case is entered into a running tally from that location and then sent to a central reporting agency, according to Dr. Caitlin Rivers, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. But that data may pass through several layers of government agencies; not all countries use the same system for collecting national statistics. The result may be a difference in the time it takes for those cases to show up in the provincial or national totals. "When people get sick especially in the context of a new outbreak, it takes a while to move them through the detection pipeline and the diagnostic pipeline," she said. "So just because we saw a big influx in cases today, it doesn't mean those people got sick today, but they probably got sick recently." That's another reason some researchers believe the number of coronavirus cases may be heavily underreported. Some estimates based on computer models suggest there may be five times as many cases as have been reported, according to Inglesby. — Reporting by Berkeley Lovelace Jr. and John Schoen; data visualizations by John Schoen and Nate Rattner. Reuters contributed.
