https://www.theguardian.com/profile/nazia-parveen,https://www.theguardian.com/profile/hannah-devlin,https://www.theguardian.com/profile/libbybrooks,https://www.theguardian.com/profile/deniscampbell
2020-01-24
general
UK seeks 2,000 air passengers from Wuhan amid coronavirus fears
Health officials have teamed up with Border Force agents and airlines to try to track down around 2,000 people who have recently flown into the UK from Wuhan, the Chinese province at the centre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak. So far, tests on 14 people in the UK have come back negative as the government seeks to calm concerns over the spread of the virus. The announcement from the country’s chief medical officer, Professor Chris Whitty, came as minsters convened for crisis talks during an emergency Cobra meeting. Chaired by the health secretary, Matt Hancock, it was called to ensure appropriate measures were in place to deal with the virus if it does spread to Britain. However Whitty said that the threat of the virus entering the UK has not been totally eradicated as medics were still waiting for the results of checks on several other people. Samples of between 10 and 20 other suspected carriers of the virus are being analysed, the Guardian understands. On Friday night the first cases were reported in Europe with France saying it had identified three instances of the virus. All had visited China. UK government officials are systematically working through every passenger who has arrived from Wuhan over the past 14 days – the incubation period for the virus – and checking up on their health. The complex task involves cooperation between airlines, the Department of Health and the Border Force: and the most recent arrivals will be checked first. While the government emphasised that the risk to the public was limited Prof Paul Cosford, emeritus medical director at Public Health England (PHE), said it was still “early days” in the course of the virus, and that it is “highly likely” that cases would be seen in the UK. But he stressed that most of those affected abroad are making a good recovery. In an earlier interview with the Today programme, Cosford said that contingency plans were ready should cases be detected. “I think it’s highly likely that we will have cases in the UK, and of course every so often we do get new infections coming from the animal kingdom such as this one,” he said. Some public health experts privately fear that the public is at risk of becoming unduly worried about the virus and believe that the government or PHE should take steps to provide reassurance. There is also concern that some media outlets are exaggerating the risk posed by Chinese students. From Saturday the Department of Health and Social Care will publish figures every day for the number of suspected cases across the UK. But if a positive case is identified, the chief medical officer of whichever of the four home nations it emerges in will make that announcement. The Scottish government confirmed later on Friday afternoon that results for two of the five patients in Scotland tested for Coronavirus have come back negative, while it was understood that another patient was tested at Belfast’s Royal Victoria hospital. Two of those tested in Scotland had been diagnosed with flu after travelling to Wuhan in China – the origin of the global outbreak. Downing Street said four out of five suspected cases in Scotland were believed to involve Chinese nationals. Late on Friday the official death toll in China rose to 41 with more than 1,000 confirmed cases. A crucial question for how the outbreak will unfold is how contagious the virus is. Scientists around the world are trying to establish how many people, on average, each infected person will pass the virus on to, a number known as R0 in epidemiology. If this number is more than one, an epidemic will grow and if less than one it will fizzle out. An analysis posted online on Friday by scientists from Lancaster University, puts R0 for the new coronavirus at 3.8 and estimates that should the epidemic continue unabated, there could be 191,529 infections by 4 February. The paper also suggests that travel restrictions from and to Wuhan city are unlikely to be effective in halting transmission across China. In the UK universities began taking measures to stop the spread of the virus warning students considering travelling home to China to celebrate Chinese new year that they risk being quarantined on their return. Medical experts also remained at every UK airport with information on the virus being given to passengers returning from China. Elsewhere, private schools were also gearing with contingency plans for overseas pupils who were unable or unwilling to return home for upcoming holidays. China sends more pupils to UK fee-paying schools than any other country. While there is “no immediate cause for concern” the situation needs to be closely monitored, independent school groups said, adding that schools should “err on the side of caution” to minimise risks to staff and students. This came as a British grandmother, Veronica Theobald, told how she was trapped in Wuhan and had been unable to return home. The 81-year-old from Lancaster, who suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, had not been able to go outside for more than a week for fear of falling ill. Her grandson, Kharn Lambert, who has lived in the city for five years, said she was due to fly back to the UK on Monday. However, her return was cancelled after the city was placed on lockdown. Lambert, a PE teacher, said: “There is no knowing how long she will have to stay here. “I do worry if I have to go out for whatever reason that I will bring something back into the house and she will become infected and fall ill. “My family at home are extremely concerned about her, but I’m trying hard to reassure them that I am taking the best care of her as I can.”
