Simon Osborne
2020-01-24
general
Coronavirus latest: UK GPs told to LOCK UP suspected victims as 2,000 could be carriers
 Medics have already tested 14 patients for the killer coronavirus and all recent arrivals from Wuhan are being urged to contact the NHS if they feel ill – this number is estimated to be more than 2000. Astonishingly GPs have been advised to ask anyone with flu-like symptoms if they have been to China - and then lock them in a room if they have travelled back from the infected areas. Public Health England medical director Prof Paul Cosford said "we won't be surprised" if people travel from China to the UK with the virus which has killed 25 people and infected more than 700. Prof Cosford said: "These are early days yet with this virus. The vast majority of people who are infected do seem to be getting better. The people who have done particularly badly, and sadly died, they seem to be people who have other conditions that might make them more likely to suffer badly with this virus." Prof Cosford said all UK GPs and hospitals have been told to place patients with coronavirus symptoms in an area where they will not infect other people while they are undergoing assessment. Of the 14 people tested for coronavirus in the UK  five have tested negative while the others are still awaiting results. In Scotland, where five people were tested, an incident team has been set up to deal with the health threat. Globally, there are more than 800 confirmed cases of the virus, which has killed 26 people in China. Authorities there are battling to contain the outbreak.  BREAKING NEWS: Coronavirus outbreak: Disneyland closed as crisis escalates  On the eve of the Lunar New Year, one of China's most important holidays, transportation has been shut down in at least 10 cities with a total of about 33 million people under lockdown. The cities are Wuhan, where the illness has been concentrated, and nine of its neighbours in central China's Hubei province. Masks have been made mandatory in public in Wuhan, and images from the city showed empty shelves in shops as people stock up for what could be an extended isolation. Train stations, the airport and subways are closed. 2.32pm: US State Department orders evacuation of non-emergency personnel The US State Department ordered non-emergency personnel and their families to leave China's Hubei province due to the virus outbreak. There is a US consulate general the province’s capital Wuhan which is at the centre of the crisis. The department also raised the travel advisory for Hubei to Level 4: Do Not Travel. The guidance warns: “US government has limited ability to provide emergency services to US citizens in Hubei province”. “Chinese authorities have imposed strict travel restrictions in the area around Wuhan. “Travellers should be aware that the Chinese government could prevent them from entering or exiting parts of Hubei province. “Travellers should be prepared for travel restrictions to be put into effect with little or no advance notice.” 2.03pm update: Baffled scientist admits ‘there are many missing pieces of the puzzle Baffled scientists have admitted they have limited understanding of the coronavirus outbreak which has killed 26 and infected a total of almost 900 people - with one London-based expert saying there were "many missing pieces in the jigsaw puzzle". The World Health Organisation decided against declaring the outbreak of the disease a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, although director-general Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus admitted the situation could change. Commenting on the decision, Peter Piot, Professor of Global Health and Director of the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, said: “We are at a critical phase in this outbreak. “Regardless of the decision not to declare this a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, intensified international collaboration and more resources will be crucial to stopping this outbreak in its tracks."  1.26pm update: UK private schools urged to monitor coronavirus crisis Britain's private schools may need to make plans for overseas pupils who are unable or unwilling to return home for upcoming holidays due to the coronavirus outbreak, it has been suggested. China sends more pupils to UK fee-paying schools than any other country. Independent school groups have said there is "no immediate cause for concern" but warned the situation needs to be closely monitored. The Girls' Schools Association (GSA) said schools should "err on the side of caution" to minimise risks to staff and students. Similar guidance has been issued by the Boarding Schools Association (BSA). Chief executive Robin Fletcher said: "It is clearly very early days, and therefore difficult to predict how things will progress." 12.42pm update: McDonalds shuts up shop in crisis-torn cities McDonalds is suspending operations in five cities in China as the country battles to contain a deepening coronavirus crisis. The company said fast food outlets in Wuhan, Ezhou, Huanggang, Qianjing and Xiantao - all in Hubei province - would be closed from today. No date has been set to reopen. 12.29pm update: Hong Kong confirms two new coronavirus cases Hong Kong has confirmed two new cases of the coronavirus, bringing the total in the city to four. Dr Wong Ka-hing of Hong Kong’s Centre for Health Protection said authorities believe the two patients had been to Wuhan in the past 14 days.  12.15pm update: Beijing and Shanghai placed on highest level of alert Beijing and Shanghai are now on the highest level for a public health emergency, according to government officials in both cities. The move allows authorities to regulate daily essentials like water, electricity and food. Officials can also take preventative measures against the hoarding of medical and protective supplies and price gouging. Other measures could include restricting public meetings and events, declaring outbreak zones and quarantining suspected cases. 11.45am update: China announces coronavirus crackdown China has vowed to take stricter and more targeted measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. A statement broadcast on state media said: “The spread of the virus has not been cut off. “Local authorities should take more responsibility and have a stronger sense of urgency.” Authorities in Hubei province have promised to step up investigations into how the virus has been spreading, including checking how infected patients were able to leave Wuhan, the centre of the outbreak, when the city is supposed to be on lockdown. 11.11am update: Cobra emergency committee convenes to discuss coronavirus Downing Street has announced the UK’s Cobra emergency committee will meet today to discuss the implications of the coronavirus outbreak. The meeting will be chaired by Health Secretary Matt Hancock. The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared the new coronavirus an emergency for China but stopped short of declaring the epidemic of international concern.   10.18am update: Great Wall of China CLOSED due to outbreak panic The Great Wall of China has been closed as the deadly coronavirus continues to sweep across China. Authorities have shut off the Badaling section of the popular tourist destination to try and prevent the spread of the virus. Badaling is located 43 miles north west of Beijing and is one of the major access routes to the historical landmark. The entry point gives access to more than seven miles of the wall which attracts hundreds of thousands of explorers each year. BNO news wrote on Twitter: “Badaling, the most popular section of the Great Wall of China, will be closed to prevent the spread of coronavirus.” 10.06am update: Chinese health chiefs accused of hiding scale crisis China has been accused of covering up the true scale of the coronavirus crisis, which has already affected a suspected 1,000 people across the globe. Ten cities, including Wuhan, have been placed in lockdown with nobody allowed to enter or leave. This is an attempt by Chinese officials to limit the spread of the disease, which has left more than 25 dead. However, Wuhan Railway posted and then deleted a social media post claiming 300,000 people left the city on Wednesday ahead of the travel ban, according to the Washington Post. This has increased concerns infected people have travelled far beyond the city, in order to visit family for New Year celebrations. Last week, users of Sina Weibo, which is a social media site similar to Twitter, accused the government of withholding information about the virus. Chinese physician Jiang Yanyong suggested authorities are not being fully transparent about the outbreak. 9.51am update: Health experts warn screening will not halt spread of virus Health experts are warning airport screening programmes might not be enough to stop the global spread of coronavirus. Dr Joanna Wardęga from the Jagiellonian University in Poland told Onet.pl more than one billion people could travel across China in the coming days, rendering screening efforts ineffective. The expert said: “The time of the Chinese New Year is a time of increased tourist travel, which will contribute to the further spread of the virus. “I don’t think that even detailed temperature screening for travellers will help much here. “Fortunately, scientists believe the virus is less dangerous than SARS or MERS.”  9.22am update: Shadowy lab holding world’s deadliest diseases based at epicentre of outbreak A biosafety lab housing some of the world's most deadly illnesses is based near the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, it has emerged. Indications are the bug originated in a seafood market as a result of close human contact with animals - but the presence of the laboratory, which celebrates its 5th anniversary next Friday, will raise eyebrows. The facility, described as China’s first high-level biosafety laboratory, opened in Wuhan, which has a population of 11 million and which is the capital of Hubei province, on January 31, 2015, after more than a decade of construction, according to a press release issued by the General Office of Hubei Provincial People’s Government at the time. Pictures carried on the Government website featured staff, some clad in biohazard suits, at the new centre. 9am update: Foreign Office issues Wuhan travel alert The Foreign Office has advise Britons against all but essential travel to Wuhan because of the coronavirus outbreak. A statement said: “On 23 January the Wuhan authorities closed all transport hubs including airports, railway and bus stations. “Travel restrictions may be in place in other nearby cities. “Public Health England has offered advice to travellers. “You should comply with any additional screening measures put in place by the local authorities.” 8.44am update: Travel chiefs caution against “spreading unnecessary panic” Travel industry bosses have urged Chinese health authorities to make “rational decisions” and avoid spreading “unnecessary panic” over coronavirus. World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) President and CEO Gloria Guevara said: “While the risk of exposure for travellers and tourists is still low, we are naturally concerned about those who have been affected already. “Experience has taught us that global coordination and cooperation, with collaboration between the public and private sector, is going to be vital in containing the spread of the coronavirus throughout China and beyond. “We analyse many global crises within WTTC and previous cases have shown us that the economic losses from health epidemics are avoidable, through the effective use of crisis preparedness and management procedures, as well as through managing public panic and making rational decisions through travel. “Previous cases have also shown us that closing airports, cancelling flights and closing borders often has a greater economic impact than the outbreak itself. “The most effective management of a crisis requires rapid activation of effective emergency plans, and we can see that in the early days of this outbreak, the Chinese government has acted rapidly. “However, quick, accurate and transparent communication is also crucial in order to contain panic and mitigate negative economic losses. “Containing the spread of unnecessary panic is as important as stopping the virus itself.”  9.23am update: Stricken city builds new hospital for coronavirus patients Officials in Wuhan have announced construction of a 1,000-bed hospital for coronavirus patients is underway and aim to have it ready by Monday. Prefabricated buildings were going up around a holiday complex originally intended for workers, set in gardens by a lake on the outskirts of the city. Television footage showed about 30 mechanical diggers clawing at brown earth preparing the site. Wuhan Overstretched hospitals in Wuhan have called for public donations of medical equipment such as sugical masks and protective suits as supplies are running low.  8.36am update: Vietnam confirms first coronavirus cases Two Chinese citizens in Vietnam have tested positive for coronavirus as the Southeast Asian country suspended flights to Wuhan. The father and son pair were hospitalised on Wednesday after showing signs of fever and are being treated at the Cho Ray hospital in Ho Chi Minh City. The father had recently arrived in Vietnam from Wuhan and had travelled to the Vietnamese capital Hanoi and the southern city of Nha Trang before being hospitalised. Vietnamese deputy health minister Nguyen Truong Son said: “The ministry of health will continue to monitor for suspected symptoms at airports in Nha Trang and Danang where, many Chinese visitors arrive." "All visitors from infected areas will be closely tracked and must undergo health checks.” 7.00am update: Disneyland Shanghia closed down over outbreak fears Coronavirus has forced Disneyland to temporarily close its doors, it has been confirmed. The theme park in Shanghai will be closed to prevent further outbreak of the virus, which has already claimed the lives of 25 people and infected more than 1,000 others. The resort is located in the district of Shanghai and will be shut from Saturday onwards. The park said urgent action was required to “ensure the health and safety of our guests and cast”. In a statement Shanghai Disney Resort said: “In response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak and in order to ensure the health and safety of our guests and cast, Shanghai Disney Resort is temporarily closing Shanghai Disneyland, Disneytown including Walt Disney Grand Theatre and Wishing Star Park, starting January 25, 2020. “We will continue to carefully monitor the situation and be in close contact with the local government, and we will announce the reopening date upon confirmation.”   05:30am update: China's state newspaper fails to splash virus outbreak The People’s Daily instead uses the front page to send warm wishes for lunar new year’s eve from the president, Xi Jinping. Xi attended a spring festival gala at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. It comes as the Chinese media attempts to domestically downplay the outbreak. 04:00am update: Death toll rises to 25 as Wuhan put under quarantine The coronavirus death tolll has risen to 25 with a further 18million placed under quarantine in and around the city of Wuhan. The Wuhan authorities have sent SWAT and police teams in to barricade public tranport links. People are still entering the city by car but are being thoroughly examined for symptons of the virus. 01:30am update: Wellcome Trust advises Britons on how to avoid contracting and spreading virus Director, Jeremy Farrar, commended China for its quick response to the unfolding pandemic. He says Britons should regularly wash their hands, avoid travel unless essential, among several other tips you can find here. 11:00pm update: Pubic Health England confirm 14 people in the UK tested for virus The outfit revealed that 14 people had been tested for the virus in the UK, spakring fears nationwide. Five of the people have been cleared while the results of the remaining nine are yet to be returned. 7.18pm update: Chinese TV presenters wear face masks during studio broadcast A number of Chinese broadcasters have been spotted taking extra precautions, as they opt to wear face masks while on air. The TV hosts have said they are wearing the masks, despite the obvious hindrance, to demonstrate the correct way to wear the basic protection. 6.40pm update: 'Too early' to declare international public health emergency The World Health Organisation’s emergency committee has concluded it is “too early” to declare an international public health emergency over the coronavirus outbreak. 6.32pm update: Fifth person tested for virus in Scotland A fifth person is being tested for coronavirus in Scotland as a "precautionary measure". A Scottish government spokeswoman confirmed that two people diagnosed with flu were now being tested for the virus while three others are also being tested on a precautionary basis. 4.51pm update: Death toll reaches 18 as another person dies of the new virus China's Hebei provincial health authority has said a coronavirus patient has died, bringing the total death toll up to 18. Hundreds of other patients have been diagnosed with the illness. 4.24pm update: UK says no positive coronvirus tests have been made Boris Johnson's official spokesman has sought to reassure the public that no positive tests have yet been made. In response to reports that four people are being tested for the virus in Scotland, the spokesman said: "These measures are purely precautionary and nobody has tested positive." 4.08pm update: Nurse infected with virus in Saudi Arabia An Indian nurse in southern Saudi Arabia hospital has been infected with the virus, India's minister of state affairs has revealed. 4.03pm update: Ireland on high alert as Dublin patient returns from China with fever Hospitals in Ireland ore on high alert after fears a patient from Dublin had contracted coronavirus. The incident happened on Tuesday when an ambulance brought in a patient who had returned from China with a fever. The patient was rushed to A&E at the Mater Hospital in Dublin, the Irish Independent reports. A decontamination of the patient, who has not been named, took place, Dr Jack Lambert confirmed. He added the patient had a full assessment and examination and was revealed not to have the virus - but that hospitals in the Irish Republic and Northern Ireland should be on “heightened alert”. 3.48pm update: British quarantined patient says more should have been done at Heathrow airport Craig Dillion, a British holidaygoer who flew back from Australia via China and began to feel ill after landing in the UK has spoken out on his experience of being rushing into hospital. He said he was rapidly transferred to an isolation unit in hospital and criticised the approach taken at Heathrow airport. He told Sky News "there should have been something more at Heathrow" to detect that he was ill. 3.34pm update: Turkey to screen on all passengers travelling from China The Turkish Health Ministry will start screening passengers on all flights from China with thermal cameras, in an effort to detect the deadly virus. 3.16pm update: Fears virus has reached UK as four tested in Scotland Four people in Scotland are being tested for suspected coronavirus after travelling from the central Chinese city of Wuhan where the outbreak began.  2.55pm update: Vietnam reports first coronavirus cases Two Chinese citizens have tested positive for coronavirus in Vietnam but are in "good condition”, officials said. Deputy health minister Nguyen Truong Son said: “The ministry of health will continue to monitor for suspected symptoms at airports in Nha Trang and Danang where, many Chinese visitors arrive. "All visitors from infected areas will be closely tracked and must undergo health checks". The father and son pair were admitted to hospital yesterday after showing signs of fever and are being treated at the Cho Ray hospital in Ho Chi Minh City. The recently arrived in Vietnam from Wuhan and travelled to the Vietnamese capital Hanoi and the southern city of Nha Trang before being hospitalised. 2pm update: Violence flares as shoppers storm supermarkets in panic-stricken Wuhan Residents in the Chinese city of Wuhan have stormed shops and supermarkets and fought over food as violence flared after authorities imposed strict bans on people leaving and entering to halt the spread of the deadly coronavirus. Supermarket shelves were emptied as panic spread across the city of 11 million people amid growing fears the emergency lockdown measures will spark shortages with supplies unable to get through. Videos emerging on social media show panic and fear much in evidence and violence amid panic buying in the shops. 1.36pm update: Wuhan hospitals launch appeal for medical supplies Hospitals in Wuhan have called for public donations of medical supplies such as surgical masks, scrubs and protective goggles. All isolation wards across the crisis-torn city are reported to be full. Chinese face mask manufacturers have been forced to reopen factories that were shut for the national holiday to meet demand and have reportedly offered to quadruple the wages of workers whose New Year holidays were cancelled. 1.28pm update: Philippines imposes Wuhan flight ban The Philippines’ Civil Aeronautics Board has announced all flights from Wuhan to Manilla have been suspended.  1.17pm update: Singapore confirms first coronavirus case Singapore’s Ministry of Health has confirmed its first imported case of coronavirus. A 66-year-old man from Wuhan, the Chinese city at the epicentre of the outbreak, is in an isolation ward at Singapore General Hospital. Officials said a woman had also tested preliminarily positive for the virus but was yet to be confirmed. 1.13pm update: US health chiefs say 16 under observation in coronavirus scare At least 16 people who had close contact with a Washington man diagnosed as the first US coronavirus case are being monitored for the infection. John Wiesman, secretary of health for Washington State, said none of the people who were in close contact with the patient have displayed symptoms of the flu-like illness. Jay Cook, chief medical officer at Providence Regional Medical Center in Everett, Washington, said the 30-year-old patient-year-old man was doing well and may be discharged in the near future. The man fell ill over the weekend after visiting Wuhan in November and December and was diagnosed with coronavirus on Monday. 12.42pm update: Russia says three in hospital over coronavirus health fears Health chiefs in the Russian city of St Petersburg have confirmed three people are in hospital undergoing tests for coronavirus. They said two patients - one Russian and one Chinese - were taken to hospital over coronavirus suspicions. The Russian national was taken directly from the airport after flying in from China while the Chinese student reportedly arrived in to Russia a week ago. Officials confirmed a third patient was now in hospital but gave no further details.  12.39pm update: Expert warns coronavirus crisis will last months The deadly China coronavirus outbreak is likely to get worse for another two months, an expert has warned. Yu Xiaohua, a professor of economics at the University of Gottingen in Germany, predicted the virus would not peak until around 90 days after the initial outbreak. Professor Yu warned that the crisis would not be over until at least May. He said his grim forecast was based on a mathematical model using information about the SARS outbreak which began in China in 2002 and killed 800 people. 12.33pm update: Fourth Chinese city announces travel ban Chibi has become the fourth city in China’s central Hubei province to introduce a travel ban. All public buses and shuttle buses will be suspended from midnight tonight. Officials in Huanggang, the second city to go into lockdown after coronavirus epicentre Wuhan, has now ordered all citizens to wear face-masks if they go out in public. 12.31pm update: Dubai launches screening programme Dubai will screen passengers arriving on direct flights from China, the emirate's airport operator has announced. A spokesman said passengers arriving at Dubai International will be thermally screened. 12.24pm update: Roadblocks set up around quarantined city Roads leading to and from Wuhan have now been blocked as the city has been placed in quarantine to try and stop the spread of the coronavirus.  12.15pm update: Beijing cancels Chinese New Year celebrations Officials in Beijing have cancelled a raft of major public events to celebrate China’s Lunar New Year with the whole country left reeling by its rapidly growing coronavirus crisis. A spokesman for Beijing Culture and Tourism Bureau said: “In order to control the epidemic, protect people’s lives and health, reduce the mass gathering and ensure people to have a harmonious and peaceful spring festival, it is decided to cancel all the large-scale events, including temple fairs, in Beijing as of today.” The Chinese capital joins Wuhan, Zhejiang and Macau in cancelling Lunar New Year events. The release of seven blockbuster films over the Lunar New Year has been also postponed. The holiday is the high season for distributors and cinemas usually attract huge crowds. China’s state-run railway will give refunds to ticket-holders who choose not to travel over the holiday period. 12.08pm update: India steps up coronavirus screening India has stepped up its coronavirus screening programme and said it was fully prepared to deal with an outbreak should the infection cross from China. Health Secretary Preeti Sudan said 9,156 passengers from 43 flights were screened for novel coronavirus infection at airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kochi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata. She said no cases have been detected. Ms Sudan urged passengers travelling from China to report to the nearest public health facility if they started to display flu-like symptoms. 11.53am update: Third Chinese city on lockdown as panic grows over coronavirus spread The Chinese city of Ezhou has been placed on lockdown alongside Wuhan and Huanggang. The emergency measures includes strict travel bans to and from the cities. Ezhou, a city of one million people, lies 55 miles east of Wuhan, where the virus was first detected. Authorities there said all train stations had been closed down. Ezhou is located just 18 miles from Huanggang, across the Yangtze River. It brings the number of people on lockdown to 20 million.  11.41am update: Hong Kong halts rail services to stricken city Hong kong has stopped high-speed train services to the the city Wuhan which it at the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak. 11.32am update: Hancock says true number of coronavirus cases will be far higher than China admits Health Secretary Matt Hancock ha warned the true number of coronavirus cases is likely to be much higher than the Chinese admit – just hours after Imperial College London experts claimed 4,000 people were infected in Wuhan alone. Mr Hancock said there were no confirmed cases so far on UK soil and insisted the country was well-equipped to deal with any cases that arose. But he said Britain's Chief Medical Officer had raised the coronavirus threat level to the UK from “very low” to “low” and the Foreign Office was advising against all but essential travel to the Wuhan area.  11.12am update: Death toll rises to 25 10.43am update: WHO hits back at coronavirus critics World Health Organisation chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has hit back after being accused of failing to act over coronavirus. He tweeted: “The decision about whether or not to declare a public health emergency of international concern on new coronavirus is one I take extremely seriously, and one I am only prepared to make with appropriate consideration of all the evidence.” 10.30am update: Disinfectant trucks spray streets of Shanghai Health chiefs in the Shanghai have deployed tankers carrying powerful disinfectant to spray they streets and pavements of the city amid growing panic of a coronavirus pandemic. Footage posted on social media earlier today showed the trucks in action in residential areas of the city. Additional reporting by Emily Ferguson. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
