Aurora Bosotti
2020-01-24
general
Coronavirus panic: First vaccine batch to beat virus ready but it will take MONTHS to test
 Coronavirus cases have jumped to 830 and China officials have confirmed 26 people have died from the virus since the outbreak was first reported in the Wuhan area in December 2019. With cases reported across the world, and 14 people being tested in the UK, Johnson&Johnson's chief scientific officer Paul Stoffels confirmed a first version of the Coronavirus vaccine now exists. But Mr Stoffels told BBC Radio 4's Today programme it will take "months" for lab technicians to be able to test their findings in clinical trials. Mr Stoffels said: "The sequence of the virus, which is the genetic information of the virus, has been available for a few weeks. "So most of the laboratories have been able to work from that information to start constructing a vaccine. Many companies have started the basic work on, ‘can we make a reasonable vaccine in a very short time?’ The chief scientific officer continued: "The lab technicians told me today we’ve already advanced the first version a vaccine into the laboratory space. "There is so much technology now that we can do this very fast. It will take several months before it will be able to be tested in a clinic." JUST IN: Coronavirus warning: How Chinese New Year could put world at risk THIS weekend   Dr Richard Hatchett, CEO of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, told the BBC his organisation is hoping to have a vaccine available to test within a year. Dr Hatchett said: "We have very ambitious timelines. "We are hoping that the vaccine we announced the partnership for could potentially be entering into clinical trials sometime in the summer. "Even with very aggressive, very rapid clinical trials, and moving as fast as we possibly can, I do think a vaccine – we’re looking close to a year, minimum. That’s a very ambitious timeline." READ MORE: Global health threat: Highly infectious worldwide pandemic 'inevitable' – 'When not if'  Preliminary findings have shown the average number of people infected by someone carrying the Coronavirus varies between 1.4 and 2.5, a much lower number compared to the SARS epidemic of 2003. Earlier reports also show a quarter of the over 800 people infected have developed severe symptoms – which include a runny nose, headache, coughing and fever. China put three towns close to the Wuhan epicentre on lockdown, blocking all travel from Ezhou, Huanggang and Wuhan proper. Approximately 20 million people live in the area. And on Friday, Chinese authorities announced plans to shut down the Disneyland resort in Shangai to avoid widespread contagion from Saturday onwards. DON"T MISS Chinese New Year greetings: How to celebrate New Year [NEWS]Coronavirus puts UK police stations on lockdown [INSIGHT]Coronavirus lockdown: Ezhou sealed off by panicked officials [ANALYSIS]   Shanghai Disneyland, Disneytown, Walt Disney Grand Theatre and Wishing Star Park will all be closed, a re-opening date is yet to be set. China is currently beginning a seven-day holiday to celebrate the Lunar New Year and Disneyland has been a hotspot for tourists during this time of year. In a statement Shanghai Disney Resort said: “In response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak and in order to ensure the health and safety of our guests and cast, Shanghai Disney Resort is temporarily closing Shanghai Disneyland, Disneytown including Walt Disney Grand Theatre and Wishing Star Park, starting January 25, 2020. “We will continue to carefully monitor the situation and be in close contact with the local government, and we will announce the reopening date upon confirmation. “Shanghai Disney Resort will assist in the refund for guests who have purchased tickets for admission to Shanghai Disneyland, have booked a resort hotel, or have booked tickets for ‘Beauty and the Beast Mandarin Production’ through the original ticket purchase channel, and we will introduce the detailed procedure and guidelines via the resort’s official platforms as soon as possible.” See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
