Rebekah Evans
2020-01-24
general
Coronavirus tests now being carried out in California and Texas
 The patients being tested have recently returned from Wuhan, China, where the virus is thought to have originated. It is thought coronavirus first cropped up in a Wuhan food market, where wild animals were being illegally sold alongside seafood. The Texan patient is an unnamed student who came down with a respiratory issue two weeks after travelling. The patient is being kept isolated and in quarantine at home as officials investigate. But a Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) spokesman warned the case could be a false alarm. A number of patients are also being tested in California’s Bay Area, specifically in Alameda County. Dr Erica Pan, a health officer in the area, told American news channel ABC7 the chances of catching the virus in the area are “very low”.   She said: “We are looking at no confirmed cases in the Bay Area and we are screening and receiving and we have increased staffing. “Because we are doing all this aggressive testing, if and when we detect our first case, we will be, and what our job to do in public health is to make sure that person is isolated.” Coronaviruses are a species of virus which are believed to cause a significant percentage of all common colds.  READ MORE: Older men are main victims of new epidemic say Chinese health chiefs  They usually appear in winter and can go on to cause pneumonia and bronchitis. Symptoms are difficult to establish as they are so varied. Some people suffer mild, cold-like illness, whilst others become severely ill. The first, and only, confirmed case of the Coronavirus in America was confirmed on Tuesday.  DON'T MISS:Coronavirus mystery: Baffled scientist admits ‘Missing puzzle pieces' [REVEALED]‘Like Walking Dead’ Coronavirus hell as corpses litter hospitals [SHOCK]Coronavirus cure: Wonderdrug ‘successful’ in stopping deadly disease [INSIGHT]   A man in his 30s from Seattle, Washington, was diagnosed with the virus upon returning home from Wuhan. He did not visit any of the food markets where it was thought the virus originated from. When returning home, he called medical professionals when he began to feel the first symptoms. According to the CDC, an investigation into the illness is currently ongoing.  Screening is currently taking place across three US airports: John F. Kennedy in New York, Los Angeles International Airport and San Francisco International Airport for those returning from Wuhan. The CDC has said these airports were selected as they see the largest number of arrivals from the Chinese province. The death toll from the virus has recently risen to 26.  More than 800 people have been infected in China, according to Chinese officials. Meanwhile, in the UK, all 14 tests for the coronavirus have been confirmed to be negative. Wuhan has been placed into lockdown, and week-long Lunar New Year festival plans cancelled as a result of the virus. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
