Leah Sinclair
2020-01-24
general
Cabin crew secrets: Flight attendants reveal weirdest things they’ve seen passengers do
 In a recent Reddit thread, flight attendants revealed some of the weirdest things they’ve seen a passenger do on a flight - and some of the responses would shock you. One user revealed that she frequently sees passengers walking barefoot on flights - even in one particularly unsanitary spot. “Please please please don't go to the bathroom barefoot. That's not water on the ground,” she advised. “I see it all too often and it baffles me that passengers feel so comfortable to do this.” A second user described a particularly graphic event which took place mid-flight: “We were flying over the Atlantic with Air India and the plane hit a major air pocket, dropping rapidly. "The drinks trolley actually rose a couple of inches off the floor, there was a scream from the toilet, but I saw this cloud of vomit rise up above the headrests for a few seconds before splashing down as we leveled off." READ MORE: Coronavirus latest: Is it safe to fly? Airports take steps to stop spread of virus  He added: “Moral of the story is keep your seatbelt on and know where the sick bag is.” Another flight attendant revealed quite a funny story. They wrote: “One time during take off for a short domestic flight, a passenger started asking people around him if we’d heard a cat meow. "He kept insisting he heard a meowing when we were taking off but no one seemed to know what he was talking about and kind of ignored him. “Once we got to cruising altitude, the same man reached under his seat and pulled out terrified-looking cat and started lifting it up above his head while laughing and crying out 'It was me! I had the cat all along!!!' I had to ask him to put the cat back in its travel carrier.” DON'T MISSPound to euro exchange rate: Sterling rockets to 2020 high - will you buy travel money?Brexit: UK government issues major travel warning for all EU holidays - what will change?Flights: Europe’s least delayed airlines revealed - did easyJet or Ryanair make the list? Many flight attendants have numerous passenger stories - some which aren’t so great. Not everyone onboard behaves well or treats flight attendants with respect, and one crew member revealed that there are ways they retaliate when fliers behave inappropriately. Former flight attendant Shawn Kathleen, creator of Passenger Shaming, shared her secret, explaining that it’s all to do with the drinks that crew will serve. Kathleen herself had one go-to technique to exact revenge on travellers.  “I’ll take a cup and scoop in a lot of ice, and when I pour the soda or juice in, there’s, like, two tablespoons!” she told the NY Post. The cabin crew member believed she’s not alone in the trick, either. She reckoned other flight attendants also do the sneaky move.  Kathleen explained she would never actually do anything disgusting with the drinks, though. “I would never spit in [someone’s] cup,” she confirmed. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
