Leslie P. Norton
2020-01-24
business
Deere Is a Titan and Its Stock Is a Bargain, Says Todd Ahlsten
In this final segment of this year’s Barron’s Roundtable , our remaining five panelists share and defend 32 promising investments for 2020. The investment pros spend more than half of their daylong meeting each January proposing stocks, bonds, and funds that they believe will race ahead of the crowd or fall on their faces, and this year was no different. Our other five participants’ picks appeared last week. Weighing in below is Todd Ahlsten of Parnassus Investments. Todd, out of our Roundtable crew, your picks did the best in 2019. What do you like this year? Todd Ahlsten: All the stocks we pitched last year are still well-positioned for at least three years: Walt Disney [ticker: DIS], Linde [LIN], Cerner [CERN], Cadence Design Systems [CDNS], and Synopsys [SNPS]. Going into this year, we had a lot of multiple expansion. That makes the opportunity a little tougher. In the spirit of offense and defense, I have five picks: three defensive, and two contrarian iconic companies that could have a big comeback year. The first is Verizon Communications [VZ]. It’s a great stock. Look at their moat, with their network effect, the size, the scale, the relevancy, barriers to entry around fiber and capital expenditure. Management has been relatively good at capital allocation. We see a sturdy business there. What’s attractive? Ahlsten: It trades at a really high 30% to 35% discount to the S&P 500 . It’s at 12.5 times earnings, eight times Ebitda [earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization]. Over the next three years, they can grow their bottom line at a mid-single digit rate. So, with a 4% dividend yield and mid-single digit Ebitda growth, that’s a 9% rate of return. On a risk-adjusted basis, you can squint to a double-digit annual return over three years. They’ve been prudent on capital spending, with 5G coming. They’ve partnered with Amazon.com [AMZN] around edge computing. They’re an increasingly evolving company at a discount. If we get some volatility in the markets this year, Verizon will hold up well. Mario Gabelli: You assume that the Sprint/T-Mobile merger will go through? Ahlsten: We believe that the deal has a 40% chance of passing. If the industry consolidates further, it would be a positive. If the deal doesn’t happen, there are big barriers to entry. You’re a sustainable investor. What’s sustainable about Verizon? Ahlsten: They’ve done a lot of valuable reporting, quantifying physical [climate] and transition risk with their assets. It’s informing their network decisions for the long term. They’re good on the E, the S, and the G [environmental, social, and corporate governance factors]. What’s your thesis for another of your picks, Comcast [CMCSA]? Ahlsten: Comcast owns a relatively challenged media asset, along with a best-in-class cable asset that ultimately provides the value. It’s at a 20% discount to the sum of the parts. Pure-play cable is at least 10 to 12 times Ebitda. Comcast is in line with low-end media at nine to 11 times. They’re being overly penalized for negative trends across media, such as cord-cutting. They maybe overpaid for Sky [a media and telecom operation based in the United Kingdom], at almost 16 times Ebitda, and will need to invest in their streaming platform Peacock over the next two years. “ CME Group is one of the most profitable companies in the S&P 500 index, with a net profit margin over 50%. It’s the largest global derivatives exchange, and volatility is going to spike this year. ” — Todd Ahlsten Gabelli: They paid a fair price. Ahlsten: You can debate that. Comcast gives you downside-protection ballast with a fantastic cable asset, which we think is upward of 80% of the value of the company and 70% of the Ebitda. It’s hard to get media assets to trade below six times Ebitda as a floor. We like the asymmetry of the investment. In 2020, there are quite a few catalysts, with the Olympics, the launch of Peacock, the potential election being part of the advertising media budget, the strong film slate, and some theme-park openings. We see an opportunity for 4% broadband average revenue per user, or ARPU, growth; Ebitda margins going from 39% to 43% over the next three years; and the premier asset being the cable business serving 26 million homes. What’s your third pick? Ahlsten: CME Group [CME] is one of the most profitable companies in the S&P 500 index, with a net profit margin over 50%. It’s the largest global derivatives exchange, and volatility is going to spike this year. It has one of the widest moats in the S&P 500—derivatives need to be open and closed on the same exchange, unlike equities, and their customers save capital by being able to cross-collateralize their trades. More than 50% of the volumes are from interest-rate derivatives. Terry Duffy is the longtime CEO, a solid manager and steward of this asset. There’s a 3% dividend yield [when you include a recent $2.50 special cash payout]. So we’re willing to pay up to 28 times forward earnings for one of the widest moats, with growth drivers. There’s a lot of value in going long volatility. Todd Ahlsten's Picks Source: Bloomberg Read More Roundtable Read the picks—and pans—from these panelists Abby Joseph Cohen: Buy L3Harris Stock Because Its Dividend Could Grow Double-Digits Todd Ahlsten: Deere Is a Titan and Its Stock Is a Bargain Mario Gabelli: Time to Invest in Stocks That Will Save the World. Here are Two. Sonal Desai: Buy the Yen and Gold. Both Will Beat Oil Scott Black: Buy Royal Caribbean Stock Even Though Coronavirus Fears Are Slamming It Tesla and 25 Other Stock Picks & Pans from the Barron’s Roundtable Almost No Chance of a Recession 2019 Midyear Roundtable: Where to Find Value What are your contrarian companies? Ahlsten: Deere [DE]. I’m from a Swedish farm family that emigrated in the 1890s, so Deere has been an important part of our family existence for a long time. Deere is clearly known for the iconic green tractor. It has one of the widest moats in terms of brand and network globally in the agriculture business. This goes right into our ESG dynamic: Their precision ag business, which helps farmers plant, use water, and spray more efficiently, is increasingly valuable. Equipment is about 6% of a farmer’s budget; 17% is seeds and fertilizer. Deere has artificial-intelligence data on about 165 million acres of land. That penetration will go up. Their ability to monetize precision farming, through a network of tractors, will generate tremendous value over the next decade. Why is there opportunity in that area? Ahlsten: We’ve all talked about trade, farmer profitability falling, and tariffs. That created an earnings reset last year. Earnings expectations are down 20%, to just under $9.80 over the next 12 months. That’s a really nice setup where, at 17 to 18 times earnings, you have all this innovation in front of you. You have a 2% dividend yield. Finally, on average, farmers’ fleets are at their oldest in more than a decade. There will be an upgrade cycle at the same time as a precision ag adoption cycle. You already have the incumbency. We think they’re a titan. What’s your last pick? Ahlsten: FedEx [FDX] obviously had a horrific quarter, and has missed in five quarters in a row. They really cleared the decks last quarter, and earnings are forecasted to decline 30% this year. We all know FedEx’s issues: rolling out six- and seven-day service, ending their relationship with Amazon, weak international trade, and the TNT Express European acquisition, which has been a real struggle. They’re finally calling the bottom, and no one really believed them last quarter. There will be structurally lower margins in ground delivery, which is 50% of FedEx’s business, as Amazon builds out its ground network. But if you look at the value of the overall network, you could argue that you would need more than $100 billion to replicate their ports of entry and network at major airports. Today, the market cap is roughly $40 billion, and the enterprise value is less than $60 billion. Express is a third of earnings. Those earnings have been cut from $3 billion to $1.5 billion. We think the integration of TNT could add $1 billion, and any positive move in the global economy gets their earnings up 50%, even if ground margins don’t recover. The CEO, Fred Smith, knows that he needs either to execute or have some succession. He’s still engaged, and he wants to win. There’s still structural growth and an oligopoly, with UPS serving the non-Amazon component of e-commerce. The whole debate is what causes the opportunity. This stock has remarkable upside over the next three to five years. Thanks, Todd. Write to Leslie P. Norton at leslie.norton@barrons.com
