Ben Levisohn
2020-01-24
business
Dow Jones Industrial Average Suffers Largest Weekly Drop Since August
It’s taken Selena Gomez many years and three consecutive No. 1 albums—her most recent, Rare , was released earlier this month—to shake the perception of her as a troubled child star. Perceptions of the stock market, unfortunately, can shift in a matter of days. In our previous column , as the major indexes started the year off with a bang, we mused about the possibility of the Dow Jones Industrial Average hitting 30,000. The spread of coronavirus—a respiratory virus most of us weren’t familiar with until this past week—in China and abroad put that celebration on hold . The Dow dropped 358.37 points, or 1.2%, to 28,989.73, while the S&P 500 index fell 1%, to 3295.47, and the Nasdaq Composite declined 0.8%, to 9314.91. It was the biggest one-week drop for the S&P and the Dow since August. With the arrival of coronavirus on the scene, information that might have been relevant no longer is. We were looking forward to the release of December’s durable-goods orders, housing data, and consumer-confidence numbers, as well as fourth-quarter gross-domestic-product data this coming week. Now, those numbers are mostly meaningless. Look no further than the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which fell to 1.68% this past week, its lowest level since October. “Alas, if the recent range-challenging price action is any indication, the forward looking prospects will be much more reliant on coronavirus than anything revealed about the final quarter of 2019,” writes BMO Capital Markets’ Ian Lyngen. That is a big change from the week before, when low yields were a sign that inflation was low and the Federal Reserve was on hold. Now, they’re a reason to be worried about the strength of the U.S. economy. Yet Leuthold Group strategist James Paulsen notes that low bond yields often have been good for the stock market. When the yield on the 10-year is over 3%, an all-stock portfolio has outperformed an all-bond portfolio by 2.3 percentage points annually. When the 10-year is below 3%, stocks offer more than six times the return. “Rather than raise anxieties, perhaps equity investors should simply embrace amazingly low yields, which historically have made ‘risk less risky,’ ” Paulsen writes. But that doesn’t mean the stock market is suddenly risk-free. As we suggested last week, the market was ready for a pullback—and one may finally be on its way. Most metrics suggest the market was overbought following its recent melt-up. The S&P 500, for instance, has gone 71 days without a 1% move in either direction, the longest such streak since Oct. 9, 2018. The Nasdaq, meanwhile, has closed at a record high 28 times since the beginning of November, the most in a three-month stretch since February 2000—you know, right before the dot-com bubble popped. Read More Trader Oil Tumbled This Week. It’s Time to Buy Energy Stocks Like BP. If You Missed Out on Tesla Stock, Consider This Chinese Car Maker But this isn’t the dot-com bubble, and the coronavirus is unlikely to be the thing that tips the U.S. into recession. Market internals are still strong, with the advance/decline line, a cumulative measure of the number of stocks rising versus those falling, still making new highs (it usually diverges four months before a market top). This drop is likely not the big one, even if it may feel that way. “Even 5% corrections are not fun,” writes Frank Gretz of Wellington Shields. “They tell you they’re ‘buying opportunities’ and they are. They don’t tell you that down 5% the news turns bad and then you’re afraid the 5% turns to 10% or 15%.” So far, it’s hardly a 5% drop. But brace yourselves, just in case. Write to Ben Levisohn at Ben.Levisohn@barrons.com
