Sam Quirke
2020-01-24
business
Intel Starts 2020 With Record Numbers
The company’s client computing and data center business segments were the top performers, togetheraccounting for 85% of the quarter’s revenue alone. And these are segments that are growing at a rate usually seen with younger, more ripe revenue streams. The data center segment was up 19% year on year as the company races to meet surging demand from the growing cloud computing space. As the likes of Amazon and Microsoft expand their cloud offerings, the likes of Intel and their data centers stand well-positioned to capture the spillover growth. On this point, Bob Swan, the company’s CEO, said “in 2019, we gained share in an expanded addressable market that demands more performance to process, move and store data. One year into our long-term financial plan, we have outperformed our revenue and EPS expectations. Looking ahead, we are investing to win the technology inflections of the future, play a bigger role in the success of our customers and increase shareholder returns." Wall Street has been on top of the growing opportunity here for months. Having been range-bound for two years through the end of last summer, shares turned on the heat in August and started the 40% run that looks set to continue today. This will be a welcome reprieve for investors who had grown used to Intel, somewhat understandably considering its size and maturity, lagging the broader tech market over the past decade. Compared to the broader tech market seen in the NASDAQ index, Intel is up just over 200% since January 2010 while the tech index is up closer to 400%. However, since January 2017, the two have gone toe to toe in performance and in a sign of the new lease of life being seen in Intel, in the past six months they’re comfortably the leader. document.write('<a style="text-decoration:none;font-weight:normal;color:#696969;" target="_blank" rel="nofollow" href="https://www.ame' + 'ricanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?NativeDisplayAdID=589&ImpressionID=0&UserID=0&Placement=PlaceOnArticlePage">');Wall Street Legend, Teeka Tiwari, who picked Apple in 2003 -- and Bitcoin in 2016 -- shares his #1 Pick for the 2020s. While the company will struggle to offer investors the same returns that rival chip makers like AMD can and have, the lack of volatility that comes with that will attract a different type of investor. Based on market cap, Intel is about 5 times the size of AMD and their lack of annual triple-digit percentage growth makes them no less attractive. Earlier this week, Jefferies upgraded the company and Bank of America was out with an upgrade last month and a fresh price target citing the huge growth potential along with the massive $20 billion stock repurchase program and dividend yield as being extremely attractive to investors. When comparing total yield to investors (dividend yield + buyback yield), Intel is ahead of most of its peers in the chip-making space. AMD offers no dividend and has no repurchase program, meaning their total yield is 0%. Nvidia’s (NASDAQ: NVDA) is 2.5%, Intel’s is 7%. Qualcomm’s (NASDAQ: QCOM) is an impressive 26% but for all that, their shares have significantly underperformed Intel’s over the past decade. For those looking to get involved at these levels, technically the stock is looking structurally sound and has a history of usually playing by the rules. It bounced off support at $43 multiple times in recent years and is heading into blue sky territory with a strong uptrend behind it. This is a company that knows what they’re doing. It’s seeing growth in all the right places and with full-year revenue at all-time highs along with the stock, investors, analysts and management alike are right to be so excited about Intel’s prospects into 2020. 6 Gambling Stocks Ready For a Rebound If you didn’t believe that gambling stocks are a worthwhile investment, consider this. The Business Research Company projects the global gambling market to reach $565.4 billion through 2022. That assumes that the industry will continue growing at is annual rate of 5.9%.

The gambling industry is composed of many segments. There are casinos, lotteries, and the now legalized segment of sports betting. But gambling is also broken down into offline gambling, online gambling and even virtual reality gambling. In fact, virtual reality gambling is projected to grow at an annual rate of 21.5% until 2022.

But virtual reality is only one of a number of emerging technologies that are changing the “traditional” face of the gambling industry. There are now hybrid games – the combination of online and land-based games and even augmented reality games.
And don’t forget about fantasy sports. Fantasy sports has created an entire industry and it wasn’t created for one person to have bragging rights over their buddies. Fantasy sports is a multi-million industry.

But like many other segments of the economy, gambling stocks were hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. Not only were casinos closed, but live sports were also put on hold. This dried up many of the traditional avenues of gambling, and gambling stocks sank lower as a result.

However, the global economy is starting to re-open. And while it was thought that casinos would be one of the last to come back, there are casinos that are starting to re-open. And, it’s becoming more and more likely that there will be live sports (likely without fans initially) sooner rather than later. And that will open up the fantasy sports market.

These stocks tend to move quickly. So now is the time to take action. That’s why we’ve created this special presentation that highlights 6 gambling stocks that are ready for a rebound. The sell-off was real, but so will the comeback. And when it does, these stocks may cost much more than they do now. View the "6 Gambling Stocks Ready For a Rebound". Complete the form below to receive the latest headlines and analysts' recommendations for your stocks with our free daily email newsletter:
