Leah Sinclair
2020-01-24
general
Coronavirus: How to stay safe at the airport - will hand sanitizer protect you?
 The increase of confirmed coronavirus cases has left millions concerned about how to stay safe amid the outbreak which has spread rapidly since its discovery in Wuhan, China in December 2019. Coronaviruses are a broad family of viruses which are known to infect people and before the outbreak - which features a new strain of the virus - there were six known strains of coronaviruses. Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), which is caused by a coronavirus, killed 774 people in China in 2002, out of 8,098 people infected. Authorities have said the new strain of coronavirus originated in a seafood market that “conducted illegal transactions of wild animals”. The coronavirus has now spread to eight countries including Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan, Vietnam, Saudi Arabia and the United States (US). In addition, officials in China have begun closing transportation links from and within Wuhan and other affected cities. READ MORE: Coronavirus latest: Is it safe to fly? Airports take steps to stop spread of virus   With airports ramping up screenings around the world in a bid to contain the outbreak, how can people protect themselves from the virus? According to the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention mention (CDC), hand sanitizer could play a role in preventing the coronavirus from spreading or people contracting it, along with a list of other prevention methods. They recommend: “Wash your hands often and thoroughly with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. "You can use an alcohol-based hand sanitiser if soap and water are not available and if your hands are not visibly dirty. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands." DON'T MISSPound to euro exchange rate: Sterling rockets to 2020 high - will you buy travel money?Brexit: UK government issues major travel warning for all EU holidays - what will change?Flights: Europe’s least delayed airlines revealed - did easyJet or Ryanair make the list? The CDC also recommends wearing a face mask and covering coughs and sneezes. Hand sanitizers and face masks have become in demand in Asia, with the Japan Times reporting a shortage of the products as the virus spreads across the continent. They report that pharmacies across Hong Kong have sold out of masks aimed at preventing viral infection, with authorities saying that more will arrive next week. In addition, an employee at the Cheung Tai Dispensary in Hong Kong, claimed supplies of masks and sanitizer ran out two days ago and medical gloves are selling fast.  While risk to the UK is currently ‘low’, Jeremy Farrar, the director of the Wellcome Trust, a health research centre based in London, has advised Britons what to do to prevent the spread and subsequent contraction of coronavirus which is currently sweeping around the globe. Talking to BBC’s Newsnight, Mr Farrar praised China’s quick response to the unfolding pandemic. He said: “China should be congratulated for some of the absolutely extraordinary measures they’ve taken in the last few days.” Mr Farrar listed ways in which Britons should go about their daily lives should the virus reach the UK.  He said: “Making sure people are isolated and cared for in the best possible way. “That family members are looked after to make sure they don’t get sick. “We need to encourage everybody to wash their hands as much as possible. And, to wear masks is probably also sensible. He added: “Travel needs to get cut down to what is essential. “Avoiding regions that are highly dense where infection is known to be present and known to be transmitting. Public Health England (PHE) has stated there has been no confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the UK, and has advised against "all but essential travel” to Wuhan city, Hubei Province. See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
