Oli Smith
2020-01-25
general
Locust swarm of biblical proportion sweep across Africa in apocalyptic scenes
 Dozens of countries are on alert following a biblical-scale invasion of locusts that the UN has described as "unprecedented" and "devastating”. The swarms of the food-devouring insects could grow 500 times bigger by June according to the astonishing UN Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) report. Apocalyptic footage from the affected regions has shown the billions of crop-eating locusts which have travelled in 930 square mile swarms. Videos of the locust swarms reveal dense clouds of insects bombarding crops across East Africa as people turn to flee  in what has been called "the most serious outbreak of desert locusts in 25 years". The UN has pleaded for international help to fight huge swarms of desert locusts sweeping through east Africa. A spokesman for the UN's Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO), called for aid to "avert any threats to food security, livelihoods, malnutrition". One swarm in Kenya measured a staggering 37 miles long by 25 miles wide in the north-east of the country, according to the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD). JUST IN: Skies darken as a devastating swarm of LOCUSTS invade Saudi Arabia   Kenya said the plague of locusts had not been seen on this scale in the country for more than 70 years. Ethiopia and Somalia have similarly not faced an infestation on this scale for 25 years while South Sudan and Uganda are also at risk if the swarms continue to spread. UN officials have declared that the only option left was "aerial control" - spraying insecticide from aircraft. According to the UN report, “the current swarms represent an unprecedented threat to food security and livelihoods in the Horn of Africa”.  It continues: “A potentially threatening situation is developing along both sides of the Red Sea, where ongoing breeding is causing locust numbers to increase on the coasts of Egypt, Sudan, Eritrea, Saudi Arabia and Yemen. “The speed of the pests' spread and the size of the infestations are so far beyond the norm that they have stretched the capacities of local and national authorities to the limit.” Locust swarms can cover 60 to 90 miles a day and consume their own weight in food every day. DON'T MISS: Galloway names the ONE 'enraged' EU state that would destroy Sturgeon's hopes to join EU [VIDEO]Canadians revolt against EU trade deal as businesses unearth true cost [VIDEO]France and Germany row erupts over Macron 'wasting £84m' of bloc funds [VIDEO]  Experts fear that if the locust swarms grow as predicted, the region’s crops and pastures, which already suffer from high levels of food insecurity, could be wiped out. There is also fears that increasing climate change such as heavy rainfall and hotter weather are making it easier for locust swarms to reproduce. Guleid Artan from the Climate Prediction and Applications Centre (ICPAC) said the region could be facing a “major food security problem” due to the locust swarms. He blamed the infestation on a year of extreme weather that saw eight cyclones off East Africa. There is also panic from those online, who fear a plague of locusts "of biblical proportions". One person remarked that the Australian bushfires, Chinese coronavirus and the locust swarms were all "biblical". See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
