Sebastian Kettley
2020-01-21
general
Climate change: HFC emissions are rapidly rising and China and India could be to blame
 The emissions claim follows widespread reports atmospheric levels of HFC-23 were all but eliminated in 2017. Researchers led by the University of Bristol have, however, found concentrations of hydrofluorocarbon gas (HFC-23) are growing at worrying rates. HFC-23 is considered a potent greenhouse gas many times more devastating than carbon dioxide (CO2). Just a single tonne of HFC-23 is comparable to 12,000 tonnes of CO2. Although there is little industrial use for the gas, HFC-23 is released into the atmosphere as a byproduct of manufacturing chemicals used in certain cooling systems. According to Bristol’s researchers, China and India are the world’s leading emitters of HFC-23. Since 2015, the two nations have announced initiatives to lower their emissions from factories producing the gas. READ MORE: China coronavirus symptoms: Pneumonia-like symptoms spread   By 2017 it was reported they countries have made great headway into abating their emissions completely. Climate change experts, in turn, expected global levels of atmospheric HFC-23 to drop by up to 90 percent in those two years. But according to a paper published today in the journal Nature Communications, the opposite has taken place. The study, led by researchers at the University of Bristol, found atmospheric concentrations were rising at a record pace in 2018. Study co-author Dr Matt Rigby said: “When we saw the reports of enormous emissions reduction from India and China, we were excited to take a close look at the atmospheric data. “This potent greenhouse gas has been growing rapidly in the atmosphere for decades now and these reports suggested that the rise should have almost completely stopped in the space of two or three years. This would have been a big win for climate.” It is very likely that China has not been as successful in reducing HFC-23 emissions Dr Kieran Stanley, University of Bristol HFC-23 is the byproduct of HFC-22 – a gas commonly used as a fire suppressant and cooling liquid in refrigeration units, in particular, in developing nations. In 2013, the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) warned China and India stood at the forefront of HFC-23 emissions. The EIA said at the time: “Our investigators discovered that many Chinese and Indian facilities, despite having destruction technology readily available, are releasing or threatening to emit the by-product unless they receive additional financing to dispose of the chemicals.” DON’T MISSUS Space Force uniforms sparks ridicule on social media [PICTURES]Black hole mystery: Could discovery be a massive neutron star? [ANALYSIS]When is the next total solar eclipse? [INSIGHT]   In 2016, cutting HFC-23 emissions became a pledge of the Montreal Protocol – a global effort to protect and restore the damaged ozone layer. Parties to the Montreal Protocol signed the Kigali Amendment, pledging to reduce HFC emissions. China and India were not signatories to the Amendment, which by January 2019 had 65 counties onboard. Dr Kieran Stanley, the lead author of the study, said: “To be compliant with the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol, countries who have ratified the agreement are required to destroy HFC-23 as far as possible. “Although China and India are not yet bound by the Amendment, their reported abatement would have put them on course to be consistent with Kigali. However, it looks like there is still work to do.  “Our study finds that it is very likely that China has not been as successful in reducing HFC-23 emissions as reported. “However, without additional measurements, we can’t be sure whether India has been able to implement its abatement programme.” The researchers estimate HFC emissions between 2015 and 2017 alone accounted for the equivalent of a whole year’s worth of CO2 emissions from Spain. Dr Rigby added: “The magnitude of the CO2-equivalent emissions shows just how potent this greenhouse gas is. “We now hope to work with other international groups to better quantify India and China’s individual emissions using regional, rather than global, data and models.” See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
